---
layout: post
title: "Cube"
---

*Preface: I've been working on a new short story since late August. Started off as random scribbling/brainstorming in my notebook during lunch, stopped once school started, but eventually got back to it and have been hacking away for 15-20 minutes day. It's been slow going and I'm probaby still 1-2 months out. Anyway I thought I'd post an excerpt of my story which is tenatively called "Cube".*

Declan's daughter remained nameless until she learned to speak. When she was born his girlfriend named her Eleos. She looked at her child so lovingly that he hoped she changed her mind about leaving. She said this tiny being in her arms was the most amazing, beautiful thing she ever witnessed.

A week later he watched her leave on a plane to Japan. They agreed not to stay in contact. She never existed. She was a figment of his imagination. Their last night was spent in a mortuary basement where they burned photos, gifts and anything that reminded them of themselves. She unfriended and unfollowed him, changed her status to single and marked his emails as spam. She even paid a service to erase all traces of him from her digital life.

Because Declan believed his daughter required regular sunlight, he took her for daily walks in parks and trails where strangers would compliment his daughter's beauty and cuteness. He now understood why beauty pageants for seven-year-olds existed.

One downside was when strangers inevitably ran out of compliments and would ask - what's her name? The english language provides only so many ways to describe the beauty of babies. Declan spent nights analyzing data recorded from each walk. He kept track of the types of people who stopped to talk and those who walked by. He estimated their race, age and gender. He noted other traits, such as whether they jogged or walked a dog or both. And if they had a dog, what kind of dog? Big or small? Leashed? Unleashed? He also recorded conversations to mine out tendencies and patterns. When did the subject start sounding bored? What questions extended the conversation in a beneficial way? The maximization of compliments was a hard problem, but it kept him busy as he waited for his daughter's first words.