---
layout: fiction
title: "Mr. Benjamin"
---


Not too long ago a short story of mine got published in a small literary magazine. The editors asked me if I wanted to read my piece aloud. A lot of people show up to these readings, they said. And refreshments would be served, as in free brownies and soda. Of course I accepted the invitation. I'd never done a reading before and felt that it might be a nice feeling to know that everyone in attendance is thinking the same thing when I get up to read, that this guy's a writer. Somehow that makes everything seem all the more official.

On the night of the reading, I was nervous. Several times, at stoplights, I wanted to make a U-turn all the way home. My hands shook so bad that my car kept drifting left and right, into the other lane, back to center, and then into the bike lane, which was always a tense moment, because I kept anticipating a collision with the cyclist who'd tailed my car for a good three blocks.

I arrived a couple minutes before the reading was scheduled to begin, and upon entering the bookstore, I was surprised by how many people there were. They were gathered around in small groups of no more than four. Almost everyone held sodas in their right hands and seemed to drink more when they were talking. I wondered where the other readers were standing, if they all stood in one group, or if they were spread out among the audience members, answering questions about their writing. I wanted to put a face to the stories.

Soon after the reading began, I felt thirsty and walked over to the refreshments area. A young man with Bible passages tattooed on his arms and neck was guarding a plastic tub full of soda cans and melting ice. I reached my hand all the way to the bottom and fished for a soda, hoping for Dr. Pepper, but expecting Pepsi. The water was very cold.

Apparently there was a one soda per person rule and this included readers. It wouldn't have been a problem if not for that fact that I can only stand the taste of watered-down soda. Not to mention that I was in desperate need of some caffeine and sugar to calm myself down. I looked around for a vending machine or water fountain and noticed that I was surrounded by books written by authors I would never know.

Finally I broke down and purchased a mug with a witty phrase about writing. I wish I could remember what it said, but I gave the mug to a homeless man who was reading a tattered copy of The Odyssey outside the bookstore. He said he was collecting the mugs and pointed out the three he had stacked in a pyramid shape. Joyfully he said that his collection was finally complete, now that he had all three colors. He offered one of his extra blue mugs, but I said no, and begged him to keep it.

What I needed the mug for was to scoop some water from the tub. The young man just glared at me and I tried not to think about how many people had stuck their hands into the water.

I took a seat in the back, next to a student who said that her friend had gotten published in the magazine. She came to listen to her friend read and to cheer for her when she walked up to the podium. She hadn't wanted to come in the first place. But she'd promised. She said something like, “You know how it happens, your friend announces to you that she just got published and you congratulate her. You hug her. You tell her how happy you are for her. And you say that you'd love to hear her read even though the opposite is true. You could care less. But then you're in a bind, trapped, when she says that you can, that she'll be reading at the local bookstore in a week. And now I'm here. But I'm leaving as soon as she reads. I have plans with some friends at the Branding Iron. You know what I mean?” I nodded and tried to look like I understood, that I felt for her. I wanted to ask her what the Branding Iron was, but decided that I'd better not. Then it hit me that I'd missed most of the reading and never got a chance to see the people behind the writing.

Someone named Jennifer Brown was announced as the next reader. I remembered reading her story at a baseball game, sitting on the upper deck with the sun shining fiercely down on me. The final score was 6-2. But I don't know who won. Her use of language was very enjoyable and reminded me of Joan Didion. Her story was about two women who loved the same man. The story starts when the man announces that he's joining the army. It's his duty to defend the country, he says, pounding his chest with a fist. He tells the women separately, each during identical candlelight dinners on the rooftop of his condominium. Once he leaves for war, the women go crazy with loneliness and get paranoid that he lied to them and is secretly staying with the other. This leads the two women to make a bet that involves not smoking for a year. Whoever lost would leave town forever, like what happens in old Westerns. For the next few months the two women, who are heavy smokers, struggle with their cravings for nicotine. One woman puts a picture of the man on her packs of cigarettes because it pains her too much to throw them away, while the other carries a picture of the man everywhere she goes and whenever she gets a craving, she looks at the picture, and that gives her strength. After a year, the women have forgotten about the man and don't even know if he's alive or dead.

When Jennifer Brown walked up to the podium, I thought to myself, she looks nothing like how I imagined her. For some reason I imagined a blond with long hair and really nice legs and ass, but who's only fault, physically, was that she was kind of flat-chested and wore a lot of loose blouses. Jennifer Brown wore a black dress with olive colored vines snaking and spiraling with no symmetry around rosebuds the color of bricks. The dress ended slightly below the knee and showed off her muscular calves. Her curly black strands, shiny with hair gel, made me think of sea urchins. Her face was round and puffy around the cheeks. She also had a nice smile, but it wasn't how I imagined it.

When it was my turn, I walked up to the podium, accidentally carrying my mug of watered-down Pepsi. My heart was beating fast again, reminiscent of a few hours earlier, when I'd turned on the ignition of my car and hoped the engine wouldn't start.

From here, the perspective was different. I could see everyone, even those that were just browsing and paying no attention to me. I noticed that five people had more than one soda. Two or three people were flipping pages in the magazine, hopefully to my story so they could follow along. An old man was asleep with his arms crossed over his chest. He was wearing a maroon sweater vest, and for some reason I got this idea stuck in my head that all old people wear sweater vests, even though that wasn't true, not in the least.

Then I saw Jennifer Brown with her sea urchin hair and calves so muscular they put me to shame and made me feel that I needed to go the gym and start running and working out five days a week. I told the audience that I was not the author, that Mr. Benjamin was unable to attend tonight, that he was relaxing on a tropical island at this moment, that he'd asked me to read this story for him, to you, the audience, and that if you're curious to what he looks like, then you'll just have to use your imagination.
