---
layout: fiction
title: "Dog days"
---

When people touched her, Joan would get upset and find a place to cry. She'd hide in the front row of motion picture screenings or the last stall of women's restrooms where she could enjoy a spurious anonymity.

Women would comfort or stare at her when she exited a stall. She'd dab her cheeks with toilet paper; she'd stumble right; she'd stumble left; she'd pirouette toward a mirror, inspect the redness in her eyes, flick her lashes, blink, move closer, move back, and then after applying eyes drops, she'd practice smiling.

Her boyfriend, Daniel, was no exception; each attempt to kiss her lips or hold her hand was squelched, kyboshed, with the threat of melodrama. No doubt, she had a flare for it.

Once they tried having sex at a motel furnished with vibrating beds and lava lamps. Each room was adorned with paintings of celebrities who were said to have spent the night, though the veracity of the owner's claim was dubious.

Judging by the painting hanging above the brass headboard, Joan and Daniel had drawn Elvis Presley's room. The portrait was a close up, painted amateurishly with gouache, the dimensions of his face rendered flat and rudimentary. Only the hair, full of volume and thickness, bore mien to The King.

When Daniel's fingers reached to unbutton his shirt, Joan told him to please stop, and he listened. She'd expected him to force himself on her if she refused, considering he'd paid seventy dollars for the room and driven two hours to a town surrounded by bovine factory farms – those were her stipulations.

Daniel studied the Elvis painting. I bet he got a lot of pussy, he said.

I have a confession to make. Joan was lying on the edge of the bed. The springs creaked in rhythm with her dangling arm. I'm infertile, she said, and then covered her face with a pillow, her sobs more than audible.

Daniel said, He didn't mind. He never planned on having kids. They could have sex for the enjoyment. A lot of people did.

Joan said nothing. Under the pillow she was furious. She didn't want to think about why he didn't ask her how she knew, so she focused on how nice it was that the bed smelled like cigarettes.

They spent the night watching sports highlights and late night talk shows. There was no touching, not even a capricious hand exploring the shape of her denim-clothed thighs. Only Joan's feet were naked, her socks stuffed in running shoes.

Daniel thought Joan wanted a baby, so he gave her a dog. At the Olive Pit, amidst the lunchtime palaver, she told him Stork Inc was a shitty business. They'd sent her a dog instead of a child. She was referring to a card attached to the dog's collar, which said, Your very own baby girl, courtesy of Stork Inc.

You'll love her, Daniel said. Think of it this way, a dog's like training for the real thing.

My eggs are shriveled, drier than my throat right now, said Joan, wondering when her carrot juice would arrive. Twisting her torso left and right, she searched for the mustachioed waiter with the first name of Abaza or Akeem. She could only remember that it started with an A. Her head ached from all this talk. She thought of saying, some aspirin, please!

Daniel said, Maybe in vitro fertilization will work. And if that fails, there's always adoption.

I hate kids, Joan said.

The conversation sputtered and eventually stopped. She dipped pita triangles in hummus and ate tabouleh in small spoonfuls. Daniel had ordered the roast lamb leg with couscous salad. The dish had yet to arrive, so he fiddled with his lighter, trying to ignite it against a wind strong enough to strip leaves off trees.

You have any names in mind? Daniel asked.

I'm going to call her Wig. Her fur reminds me of my dad, Joan said.

Her father was bald when she saw him three years ago at the onset of alopecia universalis. She'd found hair scattered on the carpet, clumps of pubic hair clogged in drains, and jars of hair in the freezer. Although the Coney Island Circus Sideshow had thrice rejected his proposal to join their cast of freaks – Insectavora, Diamond Donny V, Serptina, and his personal favorite, Bambi the Mermaid, whose only real talent was wearing plastic starfish over her nipples – his faith that he'd make a perfect wolf man never faltered.

Sure, you're kind of hairy, they said, but what can you do? Can you breathe fire, swallow razorblades, juggle chainsaws? they asked, and he said, no, I can't do any of that, but I am really hairy, and they said, get some fake fur, a few bottles of Elmer's, and we have ourselves a wolf man. Freaks are easy to find.

Now that her father was hairless, pants, long-sleeved shirts, and sheepskin ushankas took the place of corduroy shorts and yellow wolf man shirts. Joan imagined that if her father had hair, it'd look like Wig's fur, white like dirty snow and knotted into thick strands.

I've never met your father, Daniel said.

You'd like him, she said.

Joan tried her best to care for Wig. When tied outside, to the leg of a garden gnome or a flamingo's neck, she barked incessantly, could be heard a block away at her loudest. The barking didn't bother Joan, because she worked in the afternoon. It was once she came home and took the dog inside that caused her problems. Typical of a Westie, Wig exhibited limitless exuberance and feistiness. She chewed on everything. Blankets got tugged and torn. Fingers and toes got gnawed. Legs, thighs, forearms, and butts got humped. She peed and shitted on brown carpets, green carpets, and maroon carpets, until Joan tore them out with her bare hands, using her super motherly strength.

Two weeks had passed when Joan's friend Carla came to her house. Wig scampered to the front door, stopping a few feet away with her tail lowered, rear legs slightly crouched, ears back, and muzzle tensed. She snarled.

Joan was afraid Wig might sink her teeth in Carla's calves, which were muscular and beautiful. They were calves that could ruin friendships, a fact especially true because Joan's were frail and bony.

The fuck is wrong with her? Carla held her purse close to her chest, gripping the handle with both hands. Let's talk outside, she said, not taking her eyes off the dog.

No, I'll put her out back, Joan said. She doesn't pay the rent.

Get her a job as a guard dog. She's ferocious.

Joan snuck behind Wig and hooked two fingers around her collar. The dog squirmed, trying to break free, but could only move in a small circle. Once the leash was clipped, Joan tied Wig to the garden gnome and closed the door.

Mind if I smoke? Smells like dog in here, said Carla with an unlit cigarette in her mouth. She sat on the couch with one leg resting on her knee. She hunched over to examine her toes more closely.

Joan took a seat at the opposite end of the couch, and out of habit, her knees angled inward, forming a mangled hourglass, bent like the many hundreds of plastic crowbars the Wolf Man curled, twisted, and looped into animals – a talent he cultivated in the privacy of his lair, practicing in front of a mirror, so he, dressed in a leotard, could admire his hairiness and wish with anger for what could not be.

Carla took the cigarette from her mouth and put it halfway in the carton, so the filter stuck out. Don't you wish some store would sell cigarette holders like the kind Gloria Swanson uses in Sunset Boulevard?

Why are you asking me?

Look, it doesn't matter if you don't smoke. What's important is style. You can call her a psychotic bitch in that movie, and I'd probably agree, but when she had a cigarette in her mouth, she just dripped sex, this at least fifty-year-old woman, mind you. That's just amazing. Can you imagine how many women started smoking because of her?

I don't know. A lot?

I think your problem is you don't understand fashion.

I think my problem is I can't wear a dress the way you can. Joan was self conscious of her lack of hips and small breasts. The assortment of sweaters and baggy jeans that comprised her wardrobe strove to conceal these perceived inadequacies. That way people could imagine her body however they wanted, but save for a coterie of eunuchs she met in college, Joan believed her modest dress provided no mystery and instead helped fuel unflattering thoughts about her physique – that she was concealing some sort of breast disfigurement, skin abnormality, or both.

Carla shook her head in mock disgust. I promised not to tell, but Daniel's going to propose to you on Saturday. I'm so jealous. I'd trade you my calves if I could. I'd even throw in my hips.

I'm going to cry when I see him, Joan said.

Daniel was temporary, fleeting, someone to end her moments of loneliness until she turned an age where no one would care if she raised an army of inbred cats. The truth was she wanted to grow old alone, but during these years of youth and vitality, it was necessary to keep up appearances.

On Friday, Daniel called and asked if she wanted to see an unauthorized version of the Vagina Monologues featuring a transsexual named Atura Green. She was slated to perform a new monologue titled, How Life is Better With a Vagina Than Without.

Joan was rummaging through her increasingly specialized mishmash of cookware. In the drawer there were all kinds of scissors, knives, cheese graters, and crab mallets, each designed to perform a single task with amazing efficiency. For example, she owned three cheese graters, one for Provolone, Limburger, and Gouda. She couldn't find the can opener she used for dog food, and the longer Wig peered at her with those amber puppy eyes, the more frustrated she got.

Sounds like a James Bond movie, she said after noticing her lack of response. She cringed and shook her head, glad for the distance between them. Her cheeks would burn red if she'd said something so dumb to his face.

Where are you? she asked. She could hear voices and cars driving by. She wondered what phone booth he was calling from. It used to be he could step outside and find one on the street corner, but the city had dismantled it when vandalism of the booth escalated from graffiti to shattering windows with crowbars and bricks. It was a shame. He loved how the doors opened and closed like accordions and bending limbs. Most of all, he loved the privacy phone booths provided.

The one on Bryant is broken, Daniel said. Some asshole cut the cord. I found it dangling from the receiver like an umbilical cord.

Joan imagined a fetus in his hand. The fetus was so small. He could crush it or fling it a far distance with little effort.

Sorry, he said. Long story short, I'm at the train station. I swear, if someone in a wheelchair gets off the next train, I'm going to kick their ass. Daniel held a grudge against paraplegics. They were responsible for making phone booths an anachronism, and because of their handicap, no one could speak out on the injustice, the hypocrisy.

How are you holding up? Joan asked.

Not good. Some college kids are listening. Daniel lowered his voice to a whisper. I think they glared at me when I said wheelchair. What am I supposed to do, pretend those cripples can walk?

You shouldn't say cripple.

I'd like to see them kick my ass. Daniel was referring to the college students. He held a grudge against them, too.

Daniel had dropped out of Marisol University after professor Werner, his journalism teacher, refused to publish his article titled, Why Everyone Should be Able to Ride the Electric Carts in the Supermarket, not Just Persons of Disabilities.

Werner had said, I'm all for freedom of speech, but this is small-minded, illiberal trash.

Hypocrite. Sectarian, said Daniel, though he'd only the vaguest notions of what the latter meant.

Then Werner burned the manuscript. He had a sinister laugh, the sound of which had angered many students in the past, but not so much as to provoke violence.

Daniel punched Werner in the face. His fist smashed the bones in the professor's left cheek, just below his nose.

From then on Daniel bore grudges against Germans and academics.

Shit, they're coming for me. So are you up for tomorrow night?

I don't know.

Come on, Joan, it's at the JWB. And I hear the Eve Ensler fan club plans to protest naked. How great is that?

OK, I'll see you tomorrow then. Joan hung up. How could she refuse? She loved the John Wilkes Booth theater about as much as anyone could love a building. Once she even had a dream where she made love to the JWB through a large pipe in the wall, which served no purpose, she felt, other than as a love pipe.

Ever since junior high, Joan had found John Wilkes Booth sexy. She'd a thing for bushy mustaches, so it was no surprise she'd fallen for Daniel at the sight of his mustache. But just as quickly, she realized he was no John Wilkes Booth.

On the days she saw similarities between the two men, she'd talk in a breathy voice and refer to her boyfriend as John Wilkes Booth. Save me from the North, she'd say. Save me. These were the moments she got closest to him. She'd stand inches from him as if begging for intimacy. The first few times he'd obliged by wrapping his arms around her and moving his lips to her lips. But each time she'd shirk away, falling into one of her fits.

That night Carla stood in the doorway, wearing a black mesh dress with a rouched bust and embroidered details. The skirt ended mid-thigh, making her legs appear long and slender; her ample breasts rendered the spaghetti straps pointless, a matter of fashion; and her high heels revealed a set of beautiful toes. She held a chocolate cake, which said, Congratulations Girl!

Joan expected Carla to head to a bar with some friends. The thought depressed her: eating slice after slice in the kitchen with its dim light casting long, pronounced shadows of what would appear to her as emaciated African children. In the past she'd felt a closeness to those shadows, as if they'd split from her scraggy kitten frame of a body.

Carla stayed until midnight. She left with the impression she was going home to sleep. Joan couldn't imagine Carla doing anything else that night. She looked so tired, and all they did was eat cake and watch a sci-fi flick from the forties.

Some things in life were predictable, such as mutant ants attacking New York City. When was it not New York City? Name a time, Carla had asked, and she was right. Even if a movie was filmed in North Dakota, the place would be New York City in the end, the Statue of Liberty maybe digitally inserted where a cornfield should be. Not many people would identify North Dakota as a portrait of America. Maybe not even the people in North Dakota. New York City was that place.

In the same sense, a marriage of Joan Prottsman and Daniel Morley would be counter to everything that had transpired in her life. Nothing pointed to happiness for the couple, if one could call them that, even. Their relationship resembled a pair of symbiotic bacteria that had leeched each other dry.

Dog shit and urine accumulated at an impossible rate on Saturday night. By midnight the stench pervaded every room in the house.

In her distress, Joan never thought to tie Wig in the backyard. After she locked the doors, closed the blinds, and turned the lights out, she lay in bed. At times she forgot to breathe, holding it as if she were a child again, in the back seat of her father's wolf-mobile as he drove through a tunnel. She lay still, moved not an inch when Wig gnawed on her toes. Lucky thing her teeth were not all grown in yet. Both her cell and home phone rang so many times she drilled foam earplugs in her ear canals.

The time of day was hard to tell when Joan woke to a cold left calf and Wig humping the other. Joan reached off the edge of the bed. Her hand groped the floor, the tips of her index and middle walking the hardwood. Dust clung to her fingers. She grabbed a sandal.

One slap, a hard whack across the nose and Wig whimpered and yelped, scurrying away with her tail between her legs.

A safe distance away, she barked back, sounding like a looped recording.

Joan raised the sandal in the air and Wig became quiet. The dog lowered her head and trudged toward Joan. She licked her feet twice. Her tongue felt dry, scratchy like toothbrush bristles on her big toe.

Wig lowered her head further, but kept her eyes on Joan as she bent down, the sandal still in her hand. She stroked Wig's fur, running her fingers through the knots.

Good dog, she said.

She grabbed the phone and called Daniel. The fear she'd invoked gave her confidence. She understood why Daniel had turned to raising dogs after he dropped out.

They exchanged aloof greetings. Their awkwardness forecasted the inevitable, or maybe it showed that things had been broken long ago.

Atura Green is pretty hot, he said.

Yeah? I imagined someone androgynous. Cleft chin. Big, big breasts. Mustache fuzz.

You missed a great show. I want a vagina now.

I take it you're feeling emasculated.

Not emasculated.

Okay, not emasculated. For the first time in her life, Joan felt powerful. She thought of New York City and John Wilkes Booth. She wanted to be them. In the past, she thought her helplessness could control people, but it turned out she needed them. She wanted to be loved.

Why didn't you answer my calls? Daniel asked.

We should stop seeing each other. Joan hung up.

A few days later she tried to give Wig back. She stood on Daniel's porch, listening to his footsteps stomping closer. To the left was a wooden swing they used to sit on during summer nights, watching the Labradors and German Shepherds frolic. The dog days, they'd joked.

The Labradors will eat her alive, Daniel said. His dogs barked from behind a wooden fence. Between the slits, their eyes could be seen, as well as their fur coats. Wig was not his type of dog. Too small. Too cute.

What? Joan said.

They'll gang-rape her, he said.

Joan's hands shook. The leash slid loose from her grip.

Wig lunged at Daniel, but one tug sent her flailing back.

The dog pounced again. The collar pressed against her neck, and the leash pulled taut. With each bark, she inched closer.

Daniel sneered. He showed the bite marks on his forearm. This is love, he said.

Over the next month Joan found joy in beating Wig. Things got so bad for the dog that she lay in a corner and would move away when Joan walked near. Her head down, down, down when the two crossed paths.

Joan even bought a crab mallet for hitting Wig. She walloped the dog's rear-leg once. The knee bent back at such an awkward angle that even Joan winced. She decided then to use it for special occasions.

Their relationship consisted of more than abuse. Joan enjoyed feeding her dog treats shaped like shriveled bacon. She took Wig for walks daily until a limp developed after the crab mallet incident. The dog even understood simple commands. Sit. Come. Good. Most of all, Joan enjoyed it when Wig curled on her bed to sleep.

After the crab mallet incident came the chocolate poisoning. A large slice of cake for a dog, which weighed less than thirty pounds could never be a good thing. Joan had a few options: let the dog vomit and vomit in hopes she could rid herself of the poison and pray she wouldn't die of a heart attack, or two, she could take her to the vet.

Joan drove out to an animal shelter in the desert. Her hatchback, broken water tank and all, sped toward the outskirts of Santa Marisol. Smoke fumed from the hood in all directions. The temperature needle pointed to hot, very hot. The engine could've exploded, but she wouldn't pull over. She just kept gassing the engine hard, trying to overtake the big-rigs.

The animal shelter had the air-conditioners turned full blast. Goose bumps sprouted along Joan's arms when she stepped inside. The muscles in her arms tightened, but she was shaky. The cage rocked and swayed. Urine sluiced from the bars and splashed on sun-flared tiles.

A receptionist sat behind a counter, which stretched across one side of the room, bookended by two hallways which led to restricted areas. Pictures of happy dogs and cats were arranged among a jar of dog biscuits, a radio, and three tissue boxes.

My dog needs help, Joan said.

She thought of feigning melodramatic like she'd always done, but refrained. She was stronger than that now. The receptionist seemed a good target, too. The wrinkles on this woman's face made her eyes appear shrunken, almost sinking into her skull. And neither did her choice in glasses help, so large, the frames with a diameter the length of her nose.

What's wrong with her? the receptionist asked. She turned from her computer, where she was writing an email to someone named Clarence. She looked annoyed, as if deeply involved in the writing of that message.

Joan could lay it on thick now, tell the receptionist about the funeral she was planning. She would buy a vault to protect Wig's coffin from the rain. But the mausoleum would be out of the question. No way she could afford it. But if she could. And she'd trail off before bringing up her guilt about wanting a new dog not too soon after, and she'd ask if there was a waiting period for that kind of thing, if it was taboo or something.

Instead she left it at, Jesus, she's dying. What else is there to know?

The receptionist shrugged and sighed. She spoke into the intercom and seconds later, two women in blue scrubs entered the lobby, and just as fast, they disappeared into the left hallway with Wig, the double doors swinging behind them. Joan tried to follow, but was told to sit down on one of the many benches, all of them empty.

Joan sat next to a pile of dog food bags stacked six high. Out the window, she could see a woman cutting branches from a tree. The branches grew in many directions, and with her finger, Joan tried to trace a path to the top.

Dead ends. She kept hitting them, kept backtracking, kept redoing only to find more. After a while she blamed the woman with the chainsaw.

Turn on some music, Joan said to the receptionist. The roar of the chainsaw sounded like a blender. It made her think things she wished she could forget.

I can't write with noise, the receptionist said. Don't you have an mp3 player or something?

Joan walked to the counter. Who's Clarence?

My son, she said, keeping her eyes on the monitor.

You have a good relationship with him?

No, but he's my son. Nothing I can do about that, whether he's in jail or not.

Joan said nothing.

My son, the receptionist said, is a good person. He got ticketed for a DUI. That was it. He only had to spend a day in jail, but he wouldn't do it. Authority is not his thing. He reads a little Nietzsche and he thinks he's king. Everyone's king. Everyone's queen, he said. For that he gets six months in jail. Could've been a year, but even with the tattoos on his neck, he still looks young. He can still be pitied.

Joan wasn't sure what to say, so she said, Sorry to hear that.

Let me tell you something. I've been living in a motel for six months. This job I've had for five. And I'm doing all this because my son couldn't screw up in his own county!

You must love him. Her words were empty, all things people had said to her in the past.

I don't know about that. That's just the way things are. I visit him every other day, and I send him emails in the afternoon. I'm his history teacher for these six months. It's important he's not left behind. But let me tell you, I only tell him the news I want him to hear.

Joan was a strong person now, so she couldn't bring up her mother. But even when she was weak and dependent she'd never mentioned her. Many times she'd come close to saying, I was born from the womb of a man. But that sounded ridiculous. People would laugh. They'd find her disturbing. A freak, joke or not.

If she were to tell this story, she'd start with her father, the wolf man, whom she loved. He was not the wolf man until he turned forty-four. Crippled by a midlife crisis, he quit his job as the CEO of a dog dish company to become a sideshow freak.

Call me the wolf man from now on, he told Joan on one their walks in the park. Oh, and here, take a one of these.

He handed her a yellow t-shirt with a werewolf on it. You can wear it now, he said, peeling off the masking tape, which kept the shirt rolled up.

The shirt came down to her knees and she felt ensnared in a net during the rest of the walk. But the smell - of fresh from the factory cotton - she loved, so too, she approved of her father's new direction.

Never mind the name lacked originality. And never mind he was only slightly hairier than the average man. Lacking in determination, the wolf man was not.

The first thing he wanted to do was sell their multi-million dollar home in the hills. Then he wanted to sell the Lexus, the three Porsches, and the Aston Martin! He wanted to sell everything and buy a Winnebago to follow the traveling circus circuit.

But before he could do so, commit capitalistic suicide, Joan's mother, the Pause, handed him divorce papers. What neither she or Joan knew about the wolf man at the time was that the dog dish company's sales had plummeted in conjunction with the rise of the green movement. Plastic was pronounced more evil than Pol Pot, making dog dishes the first casualty.

The wolf man could never admit failure, so he attributed his decision to sell the company to a newfound disgust for capitalism. Ever the optimist, he believed this, rather than admit to lies. He read the communist manifesto and hung posters of Ho Chi Minh on the walls of his Winnebago just to prove it.

The Pause gained custody of Joan, then nine or eleven, by default. The judge had deemed the wolf man unfit to raise children.

Afterward Joan and her mother moved into a studio along with half the wolf man's assets, which was far less than expected. The bastard had signed over control of the dog dish company months before all this wolf man business had started.

For a woman who'd never worked in her life, the Pause turned out to be a diligent worker. One could even call her a talented waitress, if measured in the tips she earned. Her motivation was simple: to stick it to the wolf man. And what choice did she have but to work?

She dreamed in four months she and her daughter would move to an apartment with two rooms and a swimming pool. Then four months later they'd move into a bungalow by the sea. She was determined to make it on her own. Not only make it, but make a name for herself. The kind everyone remembered.

After a year, things remained the same. She still lived in the studio with her daughter and waitressed at the diner. She knew it'd take time, but she never expected this.

The Pause understood failure about as well as the wolf man, except she'd nothing to sell and no dreams to pursue. Even if she did, Joan was her responsibility.

These were also the days osteoporosis and menopause shouldered the glory of an epidemic, and for a single mother, such as the Pause, hormone therapy proved the best solution. She'd cry if her daughter saw her crumpled at the bottom of a stairwell with the bones in her legs snapped and fractured. That was failure, too.

Still, failures needed to be purged, and the Pause did what she needed to do. Joan never questioned the strawberry and banana smoothies the Pause had made. Joan figured the pills would make her bones stronger, so she slurped it up with the joy of a child.

She often got sick in those days, and the Pause would drive her to the hospital. By the third trip, they knew everyone by name. Nurse One, for example, always checked Joan's weight, height and blood pressure. She was very aggressive when she squeezed the latex bulb, which tightened the nylon cuff around Joan's bicep. Her arm could've broken off she was so fragile.

Meanwhile the Pause would explain to Nurse Two the difficulties of being a single mother.

I called the wolf man last night, the Pause would say, while flipping through health magazines. He told me to shut up about my problems. Can you believe that?

I told you, no matter what, don't call him for anything, Nurse Two would say. She seemed to say this every time. You're a strong woman. Look at what you've done with Joan.

I broke down, I admit, but I couldn't stop crying. I needed someone to talk to, and the only number on my cell is the wolf man's. I just wanted to hear him say sorry. For the Pause to say this in her choked staccato would take more than a minute and bring tears to Nurse Two's eyes.

Joan's blood pressure is kind of low, Nurse One would say.

You know, I tried to be tough, but when you walk into your apartment and find nothing except broken glass, well, you'd cry too. Because what keeps you going is you think tomorrow will be the day you move out of this studio or the day you get promoted to head waitress. You can't afford to get robbed. You can't afford setbacks.

Mrs. Prottsman, Joan's blood pressure is kind of low, Nurse One would say.

You understand? the Pause would say.

None of this was true, but Nurse Two would voice the sympathetic words the Pause needed to work another day.

The hospital visits lasted until Nurse One confronted the Pause at the bus stop.

Want a cigarette? Nurse One said, offering her a Camel.

No thanks, the Pause said. She looked left and right, leaning her body into the street. No bus coming. Not for another ten minutes. Do you want ice cream, Joan?

I know about the pills, Nurse One said.

Let's go for ice cream, Joan. The Pause tugged her daughter's arm. You were wonderful at the doctor's today, so you can get two scoops.

Nurse One crouched until she was face level with Joan. She clasped Joan's free hand. They were so small and so cold. Come with me, she said.

The Pause tugged harder.

Don't blame mom. It's not her fault, Joan said. I admire mom very much. I want to be a strong woman like herself. When we were robbed. Joan trailed off and wiped the tears from her face. When we were robbed I felt very mad at the world, but I saw how mom started picking up the glass on the ground. She put all the pieces together, like a puzzle, and made a new window by gluing the edges together. It lasted not even a day, but I hope you can see why admire mom.

Your mother isn't an admirable person, Nurse One said. It's sick what she's done to you. You just don't know.

I know about the pills, Joan said.

Both the Pause and Nurse One focused their attention on her as if she were an adult.

Joan wiped more tears from her face. I thought mom was getting her strength from the pills. I wanted to be strong, so I ate the pills, too. She never noticed because she works so hard trying make a better life for us.

When they got home, the Pause cried in front of her daughter, which was a first and a last in the post-divorce era. The Pause's slogan: strong women, like strong men, don't cry.

She held true to this image around her daughter, hence the need for the secret life of the Pause, which involved crying in a nearby park to attract sympathy from night joggers. Few stopped. Most looked straight ahead and kept running.

The Pause added that no one could see. It was inside her.

Yes, like a secret, Joan said of her infertility.

The Pause would never got out of the studio, but her daughter did at age eighteen.

I got accepted, Joan said, looking up at her mother. Normally she felt so small in the diner - what with the table up to her neck and her mother standing so tall – but today none of those anxieties bothered her, and she waved the acceptance letter in the air.

I told you not to come here, the Pause muttered. She pulled the cap off her pen with her teeth and flipped her notepad to an empty page. What will you have today?

Joan scanned the menu, crossing her arms on the table.

I'm glad for you, the Pause said, and hearing no response she said, what school?

The Primavera to go, please, Joan said.

She left the studio that evening with a backpack full of clothes and a half-eaten sandwich. Outside, the Winnebago purred under a full moon, which could be seen just above the trees, a pine forest. The wolf man waved her in. The glimpse of the forearm she saw was covered in a thick sheath of brown fur. He was hairier now.

If the Pause had noticed the condition of the acceptance letter - tattered, crinkled, and soiled - she'd have realized it had come months ago and not on the first day of July. Joan had told the wolf man in April, and in his excitement, he'd asked if she'd like to spend the summer on the road. She'd accepted. No hesitation. Just a high-pitched, I'd love to!

Joan hopped into the Winnebago and buckled the seatbelt.

The wolf man smiled and they drove in silence. Every now and then the wolf man would gaze at Joan, who was staring out the window at passing buildings and people growing small.

At the freeway entrance, he said, If we hurry, we can still catch the circus in Patterson.

A woman in blue scrubs walked into the lobby with her shoulders slumped and head down. She pulled the surgical mask from her face and let it hang around her neck.

Wig had died of a heart attack somewhere between the IV and emetics. What exactly caused her death, she didn't know yet, she said, except she didn't relay the news quite so clearly. Her explanation was muddied by medical jargon and apologies.

Joan said nothing and only managed an OK when asked if she'd like her dog buried.

She and the receptionist sat on a bench in the rear of the animal shelter, waiting for Wig to be buried. Dogs could be heard barking from the kennels. Joan stared into the horizon. Save for a few patches of tall, wilted grass, the sun-scorched earth stretched far and appeared endless.

The graves are dug here, the receptionist said. The prisoners dig them. Clarence volunteered for this job.

To see you?

I don't know. He tells me he does it because not many animals die out here. He may do three a week. He may do none. The rest of the time he sits in his cell and does push ups or reads.

Still, it sounds like hard work. I bet he cares about you.

No kidding. Digging a six-foot grave in the desert while dressed in an orange jumpsuit is torture. But I don't think he cares.

You think he'll come today? Joan asked.

Maybe, but he's getting out next week, so knowing him, I think he may find a way around it. I'm heading home after that. No point in me staying. He's coming back with me. That's all he's promised. But that's an easy promise to make when he's got no way to get home. After that I don't know. We'll talk in the car though, and try to come up with something.

In Patterson, they'd miss the circus. It was heading to Winslow, according to the wolf man's calculations, but he admitted his uncertainty. None of the townspeople he asked knew. Some didn't even know a circus had come through. Joan had never thought her father was chasing a ghost all these years, as there was no circus going from Patterson to Winslow to Orson except in a map dated in the early 20's.

We'll catch up to the circus, the wolf man said.

Joan looked at the mileage on the Winnebago. Seven years and closing in on three hundred thousand miles, she'd reunited with her father. She wondered if this was a mistake. There was a lot to hate about her mother, but she never left to chase an invisible circus.

Turn back, Joan said.

The wolf man looked into her eyes.

She stared at his, too, seeing confusion and inquisitiveness. I forgot something at mom's, she said.

If that's what you want. He turned the Winnebago around and drove toward Patterson again. We'll miss the circus, he said.

I don't care about the circus. I just wanted to see you.

It's been what, eight years, huh?

Nine. Joan cranked the window down. The stench of the wolf man, spoiled food, and dirty clothes made her nauseous. Wind blew against her face, making it hard to breathe and her eyes sting.

You're right, you only know me by my checks in the mail, which I'm sorry haven't been too regular, the wolf man said.

Wouldn't you like to see mom again?

I came to rescue you from her. Things would be different if I raised you.

I want to tell her my plans. It's not right to leave this way. Joan gazed out the window, at the crumbling asphalt road built decades ago. The wolf man had traveled all over America's gallimaufry of highways, freeways, expressways, interstates, rural and urban roads, searching for a circus, like she was searching for love. The system screamed freedom, seemed fitting with the country's values. How she'd longed to drive when she turned sixteen for exactly this reason! She was a fool, she knew now. The roads led people in circles or nowhere.

The wolf man and Joan returned to the diner the next afternoon. They took seats across from each other.

Nice place, the wolf man said, scanning the photos on the wall. There was one of the Pause standing with the other waitresses behind a man who'd eaten a ten-pound steak in an hour. In the world of the diner, this was a feat worth celebrating, a feat worth a place on the wall of fame. This was the kind of diner one would find in a small town not a big city, so it was amazing to Joan that the wolf man made no comments in regard to the photos, not even to wonder aloud why the Pause was in every one. Sometimes a person had to search hard, but she was definitely there.

The Pause had made a name for herself at the diner. Everyone knew her. The customers. Her coworkers. She even received gifts on her birthday. They loved her there.

But today the Pause was nowhere to be found. No one knew why she wasn't at work. She didn't call in or anything, the manager said. Maybe she needed a day off. She deserved it.

Joan and the wolf man rushed to the studio. The door was unlocked. Everything was the way Joan had left it: the two beds in the corners of the room. the clothes neatly folded in drawers, the water boiler with the power cord detached, the portable stove next to the propane canisters, and the TV with its antennas extended and positioned at obtuse angles.

The Pause wasn't home.

The wolf man, who'd acted laid-back until now, searched the room with urgency. He prowled the drawers, flinging clothes to the ground. He snooped through the refrigerator, stopping once to secure an apple and a jar of peanut butter. He checked the bathroom, pulled the shower curtains back and looked down, never so relieved to find nothing but a toothbrush.

Then he found a bottle of pills on the Pause's bed.

It's empty, he said.

Wig isn't the first dog I've lost, Joan said to the receptionist. When I was seven I had a dog named Miss Whiskey.

How did she die? asked the receptionist. She wiped sweat off her forehead with the back of her hand. People tell me about their dead pets all the time. I have a gift for it. She smiled.

Joan began to tell the story of before everything, the story of the pre-divorce era before she knew anything about green movements, dog dish economics, one room buildings, hormone pills, divorce, and infertility. She called them the years of ignorance, though they were really not.

When Miss Whiskey grew to the age where she liked boy dogs and barked and snapped at girl dogs, the Pause suggested that she needed to be neutered. This came a day after the neighboring pug, Gordo, had briefly mounted her.

After the operation, the Pause said, Miss Whiskey will be like Mr. Shannon's dog. She'll just lay down and sleep all the day. You throw a ball at her and you'll be lucky if she walks over to fetch it. No more galloping. No more leaping onto your bed, Joan. She'll be like grandma.

Not like grandma, Joan said.

Yes, exactly like grandma.

Joan, who knew nothing about dogs, didn't realize the Pause was teasing her. And because she loved Miss Whiskey's energy, felt it an inalienable part of her personality and was the trait that made her a most excellent dog, Joan objected to the operation. You can't do that to her, she said.

The operation is scheduled for next Thursday at seven in the morning, the Pause said. If you'd like, you can come with me to say goodbye to Miss Whiskey.

In the days before the operation, Joan and the Pause walked the dog every evening, and each time they ran into Gordo, Miss Whiskey would pull and power her legs toward the pug who would in turn snort and trudge toward her.

Watch Miss Whiskey, the Pause would say, and once Joan nodded, she'd let go of the leash and talk with Gordo's owner, Mr. Sanchez.

Joan would stand on the edge of the curb to make sure they didn't run into the street or chase a bicyclist. She enjoyed watching them frolic.

Miss Whiskey would pretend to attack Gordo by jumping at his back and pushing him with her fore legs. The pug would respond by lifting his leg to piss on a tree, followed by a round of snorting. Then Miss Whiskey would run to a patch of grass and nibble on it, goading the pug to come closer. After a while Gordo would trudge up to her while still snorting away. He'd get behind her and then Miss Whiskey would spin around and lunge at him, chasing him across the yard. Other times she'd sniff his ass or sit like a sphinx amongst the grass.

Joan decided the dogs were in love. What else could it be? It would make sense that dogs would enjoy the company of other dogs more than humans. And that would also explain why Miss Whiskey sniffed the ground so intensely during walks. She was sniffing for other dogs! It made Joan sad to realize Miss Whiskey belonged with other dogs, but it made her even sadder that the Pause planned to neuter her.

On the day before the operation, Joan knocked on Mr. Sanchez's door. Miss Whiskey jumped in excitement when Gordo trudged out, snorting as always. Joan let go of the leash. Play you two. Play.

Mr. Sanchez, I want to give you my dog, she said.

I don't think your mother would like that, he said.

I don't care what she thinks. Dogs belong with dogs. Humans belong with humans.

Your mom says something similar. She's always trying to find me a good woman. But I tell her all I need is Gordo for company.

You love dogs?

I love dogs, said Mr. Sanchez with a laugh.

If you don't take her, mom will bring her to the doctors and they'll neuter her. And you know what that means? She'll be like my grandma.

There's nothing I can do about the operation. But I can make it so Miss Whiskey won't turn into your grandma. Mr. Sanchez laughed again. He was always laughing the kind of laugh that made people feel happy, as opposed to the mean kind. He walked inside and grabbed his guitar.

Could you really? Can you do it? You're the nicest person I know, I've always said. Joan was jumping up and down.

Mr. Sanchez sat down on the bench, resting the body of the guitar with his knee. He motioned for Joan to sit next to him. She did, and he began to play a song.