---
layout: fiction
title: "Easton park"
---

Norman Ducker sat against the couch and decided to call the customer service hotline. He was worried that his family would not come. He dialed the number that came with the receipt. This number was displayed at the bottom in a small compact font that had made the ink run when printed on his EPSON printer some weeks ago. Readability was made even more abstruse through numerous creases and a fresh coffee stain. The resulting brown splotch – which was now seeping towards the center of the receipt – occurred moments earlier when he had squeezed his Styrofoam cup a bit too hard, momentarily crushing the circular lip into an almost figure-eight or infinity symbol type shape and spilling coffee all over the living room table's glass surface from where the milky liquid's trajectory coincided with the receipt's position in the lower left corner.

Norman listened as the RBT rang twice. The phone's speaker was cupped over his left ear and felt as if someone had closed their whole mouth around his pinna. He twisted the phone cord into a series of ovals by wrapping the helix around itself.

On the fourth or fifth ring the phone was answered by an automated message. At first Norman had thought it was an operator. He wanted very much to talk to a real person. That the voice was female also excited him. It had been two weeks since he had left the apartment, spending a majority of his days watching television dating shows and soap operas, which he really didn't think he'd like or even enjoy when he first began watching The Guiding Light and General Hospital, but now he found himself immersed in the story-lines and feeling some emotional attachments to the characters. The automated message gave Norman a list of options, each corresponding to a number on his phone pad. He chose option nine to talk to a live operator.

Smooth jazz played until the next available operator could assist him. He thought about dashing to the kitchen really quick and getting a towel to clean the coffee before it completely ruined his carpet, but he was afraid that if he left the phone for even a moment that an operator might become available and hang up on him after saying hello a couple dozens times and getting frustrated that it was probably another prank call.

Minutes later, an Indian woman answered the phone. He could tell by her accent. She introduced herself as Jennifer Brown. He asked her if that was her real name, since she didn't sound like a Jennifer Brown to him. Norman was unconsciously trying to uncurl and straighten the phone cord's helix shape with the fingers of his free hand, something he tended to do when he was feeling more than a little anxious. She responded by saying that he was being kind of rude, which he no doubt was, but this woman was obviously lying to him, and that somehow made his actions acceptable. Norman demanded to know her real name. 'Why does it matter if you know my real name or not?' said the operator, 'Our relationship ends once this phone conversation ends. I will never speak to you again. Let alone ever see you.' Norman demanded again that he know her real name, and this time the operator told him. She did so reluctantly, showing embarrassment as she said her name, which was unpronounceable, and both agreed that Jennifer Brown was probably better. Norman apologized for his hostility and explained that he was just worried about his family not arriving today, and that maybe she could enter some information into her computer and check the company's databases or something. Jennifer Brown asked if this was a joke and Norman begged her not to hang up, which she didn't, as evidenced by her breathing and the voices of operators in the background. Jennifer Brown said that he had the wrong number, because this was a computer company and that they sold computers, and only computers. He tried to think of something to say, knowing that they would never speak again if he hung up.


Norman Ducker and Pauline Forbes attended a professional basketball game. They sat on the upper level, with seats close to a guardrail that circled the inside perimeter and obstructed their view, forced them to watch the game through the rectangular spaces separating each row of bars. All the contorting and craning made Norman's neck ache, but he forgot about the pain once the halftime buzzer sounded. He fingered the engagement ring's cubic zirconia and the smooth surface of the silver band stashed in the left pocket of his Dockers, and anticipated the moment when the JumboTron would flash his marriage proposal.

At forty, Norman Ducker feared the prospect of living alone in his coming years of old age and possible infantile regression initiated by some neurological disease such as Parkinson's or Alzheimer's, and this was why he planned to propose to Pauline Forbes tonight. For him, marriage signified possession and a binding contract that at least palliated his fear of losing her to some disastrous fallout, and maybe divorce proceedings at their age would be too much of a hassle, pointless enough for Pauline to resign herself to an unhappy marriage with Norman Ducker, not that he expected that to happen or anything. Of course there was always the possibility that Pauline would die before him, along with a hundred other ways for him to end up alone, but that was the least of his worries.

The halftime show consisted of a wheelchair basketball scrimmage. The PA announcer's voice sounded monotone now, as if he was unsure whether favoring one team would infringe on the meaningless nature of the scrimmage or not. Or if rooting for one side entailed some act of discrimination towards paraplegics. Not that it mattered to anyone in the stadium. Most had left for the restrooms or concession stands after the halftime buzzer, and this always led to some excruciatingly long lines, which Norman Ducker had avoided by leaving his seat a few minutes before the second quarter expired, and, when he was washing his hands in the restroom, he had stared at himself in the mirror and practiced saying, 'Will you marry me, Pauline Forbes?', over and over again until a father had rushed through the restroom's hydraulic door, barging his way in with his shoulder while cradling his son in his bearlike arms, searching in frantic haste for a towel dispenser, of which there were none, only two electric hand dryers with red buttons, nothing that that would ease the sight of blood streaming from both the poor kid's nostrils in such profuse amounts that Norman Ducker had wanted to throw up, and the father had then kicked open the door of an empty toilet stall, squeezed inside, leaning, reaching, for a roll of toilet paper to aid in the cessation of his son's bleeding, and, when it was all over, the son's blood smudged and stained on the floor, the sinks, the mirrors, and the silver nozzle of the electric hand dryer, Norman had left impressed by the father's cool under fire, and he couldn't wait to be a hero for his future son.

The JumboTron was showing realtime footage of the wheelchair basketball game. It was a close up of one of the players. He cradled the ball and rotated the handrim with his free hand, propelling himself across the court while his opponents hurried to change directions.

'It's hard to tell from here, but I bet they must have some really strong arms,' said Pauline Forbes. 'Do you think they feel the need to compensate for their lack of leg strength through abnormal muscular build up in their arms? It seems like it.'

'Their arms look normal to me,' said Norman Ducker. 'What does it matter?'

'It's another example of male insecurity is all,' said Pauline, 'I don't know why you took me to this game in the first place. You know how I hate sporting events.'

'I have my reasons.'

'Of course. Everyone does.' Pauline drank some diet Pepsi and returned the bottle to the cup holder. Drops of water made her fingers slick and shiny. Some slid under the curve of her acrylic nail extensions, colored with raspberry nail polish.

Minutes later the JumboTron displayed the words, 'Will You Marry Me, Pauline Forbes?'

'Look up.' Norman nudged her shoulder and pointed to the video screen. He smiled as he reached for the engagement ring.

Pauline turned to him, cheeks cranberry colored, her lips pressed together, and her eyes staring deep into his, kind of stern, kind of austere.

Norman pulled out the ring and asked her if she would marry him.

The Peruzzi cut cubic zirconia glinted under the stadium lights. People in the surrounding seats turned in their direction. The JumboTron showed a close up of Pauline's face, her wrinkles smoothed out by the low resolution screen. The expression in her eyes, however, was clear to everyone.

'So what is it Pauline?' Norman leaned his face closer to hers, close enough so that he could smell her perfume, Shiseido Nombre Noir, her favorite. His smile began to fade, now anticipating the moment when she would say no.

Later, when they were on the freeway, Pauline driving them home in her Prius, she apologized for embarrassing Norman in front of all those people, but also told him that he deserved it, since he knew how she felt about marriage and children, how they didn't need government recognition to truly love each other, how she never wanted to be pregnant because that would interfere with her managerial position at General Mills, and how the marriage tax penalty would cost them thousands of dollars a year, and that was reason enough to remain POSSLQs. They had discussed the matter hundreds of times in the past six years, and she had been under the impression that Norman understood her stance, that he had, in the past, even told her this in his own words.

Norman remained silent. He stared out the window, into the interior of other cars, searching for glimpses of family life.


Norman Ducker's friend Don Cain, a premed dropout, once told him this story about a bachelor who lived alone in a New York City high-rise. The bachelor had come in for a physical checkup that also included a blood test for which the results were alarming – LDL-cholesterol level of 242 mg/dl, HDL-cholesterol level of 34 mg/dl, fasting triglyceride level of 378 mg/dl, fasting blood sugar level of 293 mg/dl, and systolic blood pressure of 220 mm/Hg – and the doctors warned him about his increased risk of myocardial infarction if he did not shape up his eating and exercise habits, not to mention his ever increasing consumption of Seneca Ultra Lights – now up to three packs a day on average. The bachelor took heed of the doctor's warnings, at least for a week or so before he reverted to his old habits, but during that brief period of healthier dietary choices and daily regiment of jogging, push ups, and sit ups, he also purchased an automatic external defibrillator (AED), a 2004 model with biphasic waveform instead of monophasic, which he heard could cause third degree burns and leave two rectangular marks on one's chest if they were not careful, and the bachelor did not want that at all because, on occasion, he enjoyed trips to the beach. One helpful tool that came with his AED kit was a razor for which to shave his hairy chest and allow for unobstructed defibrillation on his epidermis in the event that ventricular tachycardia were to occur, and a month later, the bachelor, while performing knuckle push ups, felt a squeezing pain in his chest and epigastrium, causing his arms to wobble until his body crashed downward, face abrading against the carpet, and, on the ground, his breathing was choked, and he could hear his heart beating fast, out of rhythm and well over a hundred BPM, and this was bad news for the bachelor whose cardiac muscle tissue was beginning to die due to decreased blood flow and insufficient oxygen, his cell's mitochondria unable to perform oxidative phosphorylation, and now his only hope was to crawl to the AED kit on the northernmost wall of his apartment, so he dragged himself across the room by digging with his elbows and kicking with his feet, and when the bachelor reached the northern wall, he stretched his arm upward and pulled the kit down, sent it crashing to the ground inches from his head, and at this point the pain had reached his neck and left shoulder, making every move to take off his shirt excruciating, and sometime between shaving his body and placing the electrode pads on his chest and lower rib cage, the bachelor lost consciousness, and because he was a day trader and paid his rent through electronic fund transfer (EFT), his body went undiscovered for a whole year, and now as Norman Ducker sat in his shower, he feared a similar fate.

The two sliding glass doors in front of him were pressed together, closed shut, forming a quarter circular arch, which he could not see through because of the steam. Jets of water from the shower-head struck his chest and swirled down the drain.

His breathing was becoming more and more constricted. He considered getting out before he suffocated. In the past week this had become a familiar thought. He knew that he should listen to his conscience. His skin would feel rough and dry if he did not leave soon, and that was the last thing he wanted, because this would necessitate an excursion into the beauty products section of some high-grade discount department store, and without a female companion it would be embarrassing. In living with Pauline for the last six years, he had acquired a dependence on moisturizing lotions, to the extent that he would become agitated when the skin around his fingernails began to peel. He thought about going cold turkey, then dismissed the idea. The importance of smooth and healthy skin in the areas of confidence and beauty was too much to lose. He could instead purchase his moisturizing lotion around closing time. This would at least minimize the chances of embarrassing confrontations with women sometimes half his age. He liked this idea much better. He made a mental note to do this sometime next week, and to also wear a hat with the bill lowered over his eyes and a black hoodie for increased anonymity.

The pleasure derived from the water's heat made it difficult for him to leave the shower due to its effective, if temporary, assuagement of his depressive feelings. He regretted moving into his own apartment. Pauline had said that they were both mature adults, capable of compromise and forgiveness. She didn't see a problem in continued cohabitation, so long as things didn't get weird between them, and, in response, Norman had said that she knew and he knew that neither of them would make concessions on the issue of marriage. They were fooling themselves if they thought otherwise. There was no point in deceiving each other. Thinking back, he had only acted this way out of pride, perturbed by what he perceived as her condescension, which, in hindsight, he had overblown.

His back ached from the bumps and etched grooves of the wall's ceramic clamshell tiles. The water was burning his skin with diminishing intensity. He wondered how long he had been sitting here. Each day the refuge of his shower had become more and more difficult to leave, and he estimated that at least thirty minutes had passed, though it felt much longer than that. When he stepped out of the bathroom, he was sure that the living room would lie in crepuscular darkness. Twilight would beam through the balcony's sliding glass door, and standing with a towel wrapped around his waist, he would feel the cold air brush against his boiled skin, marked by what resembled rashes all over his chest. He was afraid of the living room's metamorphosis, and the longer he waited, the more reluctant he became, more so in a physical sense, how his limbs refused to obey his mind's reasoning, its warnings to leave the shower before his skin started to bleed in the same profuse manner as Cerina Vincent's legs in Cabin Fever.


Swanson, a subsidiary of Pinnacle Foods and inventor of the TV dinner, had launched a new ad campaign for Hungry-Man, whose perennial selling point had always been that the fact that it boasted larger and heartier portions than the company's flagship American Recipes brand, and because of floundering sales in the face of more health conscious consumers and the growing opinion in family households that frozen dinners were a low class affair, the company had decided to gear the Hungry-Man brand towards a new demographic – that of single men – and this signaled a radical shift in philosophy for Swanson, whose image had represented family entertainment for the last fifty years, coinciding with color television's entry into the mainstream, and now Swanson's strategy was to use that image to their advantage by establishing a signification of the Hungry-Man brand with family fulfillment, and this was the precise effect that Swanson's new commercial had on Norman Ducker, though he was at the time incognizant of the reasons pertaining to his sudden desire to purchase Hungry-Man frozen dinners, this impulse that caused him to turn off the television, drive down to the supermarket, and head straight to the frozen food aisle.

Plush donkeys and zebras stared at him from above the refrigeration units. He couldn't understand the logic. There was no way that a child could reach high enough to even touch a furry hoof hanging over the edge, as most children in his estimation were no taller than four feet, possibly five with their arms outstretched. But maybe he was underestimating the ingenuity of children these days. What did he know about them anyway?

Walking past the frozen juice concentrate, Foster Farms corn dogs, Red Baron, Freschetta, and Celeste pizzas, Ore-Ida French fries, Hot Pockets and Croissant Pockets, Jose Ole burritos, chimichangas, and chicken taquitos, brought back memories of his childhood favorites, after school meals that he prepared for himself when his mother was at work or too busy. He had not eaten TV dinners in a long time. When he and Pauline were together they would eat out almost every night, always searching for something fresh, something new. Japanese, Ethiopian, Thai, Mediterranean, Indian, French, they tasted it all. He avoided dining in posh restaurants now that he was alone. It had always been his perception that eating out was a purely social event. Those that didn't follow this axiom were pathetic, and to a certain extent this also included couples who never talked during meals out, and who would instead read (and sometimes reread) the dessert and alcoholic beverages menu, fiddle with their napkins and eating utensils, or make frequent trips to the restroom until their food arrived and made their silence more palatable. He could at least relish the fact that he and Pauline had never reached that point.

Farther down the aisle, Norman saw Don Cain scanning a bag of frozen vegetables, which rested limp on his palm like a premature baby. He wore a beige polo with the first and third buttons fastened. The pique cotton cloth hung on his frame like a deflated beach ball due to the hurried manner in which he had tucked in his shirt following an emergency restroom break. His belt circled counter-clockwise around the pant loops of his brown slacks.

At first Norman Ducker was not certain that the man scanning vegetables was his friend. On many occasions Don Cain had mentioned that he worked at various medical clinics, ranging from liposuction to pediatric. He put particular emphasis on the fact that he practiced medicine without a license, always voicing his concern over surprise inspections or giving treatment to undercover police officers. Granted Norman didn't know Don all that well. Their friendship consisted of bowling nights and watching Monday Night Football at the First and Goal sports bar. During blowouts Don liked to tell stories about botched surgeries that he had heard second hand or sometimes experienced himself, and everyone was content to listen so long as they had their fried calamari with marinara dipping sauce and a beer.

There was a strong possibility that this man was a total stranger, and Norman was afraid that his greeting would be regarded as maybe too cordial for a customer-worker interchange, and could be interpreted in the wrong manner, and he would then have to explain that he thought the man was someone else, a doctor friend whom he was eager to chat with about some personal relationship issues apropos a former lover, his girlfriend of six years. Despite these concerns, Norman approached the man who was now scanning a bag of southwestern style frozen vegetables.

Norman greeted the man in a very general manner, as if he was intending to ask at which aisle the canned soups were stocked, and when the man acknowledged him by name, Norman was relieved. At the same time he was also perplexed by the way Don had hid the scanner behind his back and how had he thrown the bag of vegetables in the freezer so quickly that it fell off the top rack and slid down against the glass door until it hit the cold air vents at the bottom.

'I never thought I'd see you here,' said Norman Ducker.

'Look, it's only temporary. I've been getting a lot of heat at my other job. I figure it's best to lay low until things die down a bit. I got a family to take care of these days. What else can I do?'

'What kind of heat are you talking about?'

'My break's coming up, so you mind if we head out and talk about this instead? I don't feel too comfortable telling you here anyway, not with Loss Prevention spying on us.' Don pointed to the black domes scattered across the ceiling.

'Yeah sure. No problem,' said Norman with a hint of skepticism. He was still unsure whether this was the real Don Cain or not. There was a noticeable difference in his idiolect.

They walked outside, heading to the picnic tables in front of the store. Some teenagers stood in front of a large cardboard box full of seedless watermelons. There was also a pallet placed underneath the box so a forklift could easily relocate the oblong gourds to a safer location at night. Three newspaper vending machines were bolted to the cement surface. Two were encased in steel and equipped with coin slots that only accepted quarters, and the other was constructed from yellow plastic and provided free used car and home listing catalogs in an alternating bimonthly schedule. The soda machines hummed and glowed, though the one selling generic cola did so with less verve. The buttons were plastic and rectangular in shape, dulled at the edges, full of scratches, and inside the casings the cardboard logos were water worn. A soda can with the tab open was superimposed on the machine's front panel, but because the image was not backlit like its counterpart, it lacked the same vibrancy.

They took seats opposite of each other. The umbrella pole protruding from the center of the table wobbled from a strong gust. Norman squinted and covered his eyes with his hand, trying to avoid the airborne dust and dirt.

'Don't tell the guys about my working here, alright?' The wind didn't affect Don in the same fashion as Norman Ducker, who was now using his index finger to carefully rub the outside corner of his left eye. Don had avoided this problem by sitting with his back to the wind. The one minor annoyance for him was that he had to keep one hand on his head at all times. Otherwise his toupee would fly into the parking lot. But even with his fingers spread over the surface of his head, the back section of his synthetic hair piece was flailing and flapping around wildly.

'Sure, if that's what you want. But I don't see why it matters. I think it's a great thing you're doing. You know putting family first and everything,' said Norman.

'Cut the bullshit man. I'm serious when I say that I don't want the guys to know. It'd ruin the mystique of Don Cain the renegade doctor. Even if they won't admit it, they’re envious of me. You can see it in how they listen to my stories.'

'That's true, but I think there's something honorable in what you're doing for your family.' Norman was unconsciously tracing his finger around the pebbled surface of the picnic table.

'There's nothing honorable about scanning bags of frozen vegetables. Forget about that. Why the hell are we arguing about this shit anyway? I mean you wanted to hear the story right?'

'Yeah, let's hear it.'

I was, at the time of the incident, working at FATS, a liposuction clinic owned by a Dr. Pham, MD, PHD, to whom I owed much gratitude for hiring me despite the legal complications of my not holding a proper medical degree or its equivalent. His overall generosity as a person did make me second guess the moral implications of withholding from him the series of surgical mishaps that had forced my dismissal from previous jobs, the latest being the unintentional puncturing of a patient’s kidney during a routine liposuction procedure with abdominoplasty, but thankfully the damaged area was repaired without causing further complications. I think also the reason that this Dr. Pham hired me was because my haranguing on the intrinsic value of liposuction as art form turned out to be along the same lines as his own philosophy.

Dr. Pham’s trust in my abilities as a cosmetic surgeon grew after months of successful procedures, what he proclaimed as a true gift for the contouring and sculpting of human fat. He also spent obsessive hours studying before and after photos of my patients during this time. Then two days prior to the incident, Dr. Pham came to me with a proposition.

He scurried over to me very mouse-like in demeanor, I assume, due to his diminutive size and long whiskers growing from his upper lip's grooved area, which was located slightly off center towards his more eggplant shaped nostril, of which I could never remember whether it was the right or the left.

Once Dr. Pham had gotten my attention, he asked me if I would be willing to apply my artistic skills on a patient by the name of Jennifer G. Normally this would not have been a strange request. Except that she was scheduled to go under the knife in two days and was also expecting me to remove in excess of 7000 ccs or 14 pounds of fat and liquid. Right away I informed Dr. Pham that the increased dosages of lidocaine necessary for such a procedure could be fatal.

He refused to listen to me. He shook his head furiously and balled his tiny hands into fists as if he wanted to punch the wall. Or even me. Now after regaining his composure by doing some controlled breathing exercises and pacing around the corridor, Dr. Pham explained that he was very attracted to this Jennifer G.

He had courted her for three weeks without success, and out of desperation, he had offered her free liposuction in exchange for one date. It was an offer she could not refuse because she wanted desperately to become a Victoria's Secret model and as long as her thighs touched she would never get the chance to strut down the runaway with Heidi Klum and Alessandra Ambrosio, her childhood heroes. When he finished with his explanation, he said, 'Do you see now? You are the one that can make her dream come to truth.'

'I don't know about that. Can't you do it?' I said.

He shrunk at this, hiding behind a vending machine with his hands clamped on the edges. Part of his face peered out, a single epileptic eye in the open.

'I am afraid I cannot do this,' he said. 'I am no artist. I cannot create beauty from these hands.' When I remained silent, he added, 'Please, you are the only one.'

'Okay, calm down. I'll help you out. But only because I owe you.'

Two days later I was watching Dr. Pham administer anesthesia on Jennifer G who was lying prone on the operating table, her lower body and legs exposed, naked. An electric blanket was warming her head and neck at 79 degrees F to prevent hypothermia and cardiac arrhythmia. I wondered what she looked like. My curiosity had been piqued ever since Dr. Pham had asked that I not be present until intravenous sedation was underway. When left up to my imagination I always, for some reason, picture my high school sweetheart, and that was the face I associated with those varicose veined thighs of Jennifer G. I turned away at the thought of operating on her.

The monitor to my right displayed her heart rate, blood pressure, oxygenation, and body temperature. I kept expecting her vital signs to flatline, but they remained stable.

'Paul,' I said. 'Paul.'

'What is it, my friend?' said Dr. Pham. His voice was muffled from his surgical mask. He petted her thighs, stroking back and forth with a gloved hand.

'Can you do me a favor and inject the tumescent solution? Emergency call. My wife.' I pulled out my phone.

'Is everything prepared?'

'Yeah, I double checked that the RL, lidocaine, and epinephrine were mixed properly. Should be no problems.'

'Fine then. Get back within the next hour.' Dr. Pham was kneading her calf muscles now. 'I hope everything is okay with the wife.'

With Dr. Pham's permission, I dashed outside. The lower half of my lab coat was acting like a cape due to the speed at which I was running into the wind and vice versa. I headed straight to my car and strapped my seatbelt diagonally across my body.

My plan was to drive away and find a new a job. The solution, at first, seemed simple. But once I started the engine and gripped the leather knob of the gear selector, I became, suddenly, indecisive in regards to the dilemma at hand. I even began to avoid the issue altogether by focusing my efforts on relieving a whole string of minor annoyances that I told myself had to be dealt with first. At one point I could not concentrate due to the way my seatbelt had made the fabric of my scrub billow outward, and out of irritation I was driven to hastily flatten the ballooned areas by patting my hands all over my chest, causing, unfortunately, the entire front side of my scrub to get extremely wrinkled and disordered looking, and this then compelled me to use my wrists like irons in an attempt to somehow smooth my shirt out.

It was only after ridding myself of all these petty distractions that I was able to focus on the greater issue at hand. Because of the happenstance of my never having met Jennifer G face-to-face and my subsequently associating her with my high school sweetheart – who coincidentally also went by the same name despite her birth certificate stating otherwise, and who I remember, at age eighteen or seventeen, was already showing signs of developing some pretty grotesque looking spider veins once she got older – I could not leave her with Dr. Pham. At the same time the possibility of inserting a cannula subdermally into her thighs was not something I desired to do, however I reasoned that it was better than letting Dr. Pham operate on her.

I reentered the operating room and without a word I began the procedure, making a small incision on her right thigh and inserting the cannula.

'Ah, good to see you back, my friend,' said Dr. Pham. 'I was worried that I would have to do it myself.'

I focused on breaking up the fat cells, carefully moving the cannula back and forth.

'Do you need any assistance?' When there was no response Dr. Pham said, 'Ah, I see, how could I forget, you are an artist. You work alone because only you have the vision, correct? I will leave you alone now. Do not mind me.'

I was, in the opening minutes of the surgery, feeling very lightheaded, as was common during moments when I felt particularly nervous about something, including, on occasion, even perceived or hallucinatory dangers, which, clearly, this was not one of those instances, though I wished it were for my sake, and Jennifer's too to some extent. The other telltale sign of my nervousness was that I could not hold steady the cannula without concentrating very hard on the precise maneuvers required of me, when normally these actions were executed unconsciously by way of muscle memory and routine. It was, I think, at this critical juncture of the surgery that I had determined the fate of Jennifer G, of which I am referring to the onset of bradycardia and hypotension due to lidocaine toxicity at the five hour mark of surgery. Her death was inevitable once it had reached that point since the clinic did not possess the appropriate medical equipment and facilities to resuscitate her.

'Fuck, man. She's dead.' I put my hands on my head. The fat on my latex gloves oozed into my hair.

'What do we do?' said Dr. Pham.

'I don't know. Maybe we can start by pulling that damn thing out her leg.' I pointed to the cannula that was sticking out of her thigh and continuing to suction fat.

Dr. Pham closed his eyes and turned away before pulling it out. 'Why must you have done this awful thing? I will kill you!' He lunged forward, attempting to stab me with the cannula. He began to cry after I tore it away from his hands. 'I am sorry. This is all my fault. I should have listened to you, my friend.'

'We gotta get rid of this body. Bury it somewhere. Or maybe we can burn it.'

'No, no more danger. We call for an ambulance and the police. We say that it was an accident.'

'It's not that easy, Paul. We're in deep shit. You didn't even get her to sign a waiver form, let alone follow any standard procedures. I mean she never even got screened. We're going to jail if we call the cops. Is that what you want?'

'Of course not. I am not thinking clearly ever since I met Jennifer.' Dr. Pham sat against the door with his knees tucked into his chest.

'We have to get out the country. Someone's going to find out she's missing sooner or later. God, I haven't even thought about what I'm going to tell my family.'

'Do not worry. We will not have to resort to something so drastic. Not yet. See, I know of a company where we can purchase people online. All we have to do is order a woman to replace her. No one will notice.'

'Dr. Pham said that it was possible to order someone with the same physical specifications as Jennifer G due to recent advances in biotechnology and that this company Mail Order Families Surplus Co was the leader in this field. The downside, he noted, is that science has not yet reached a point where the transference of memories and temperament to a new body is possible,' said Don Cain, who was no longer holding onto his toupee. The wind had died down considerably.

'What about her family and friends? They'd know right away it wasn't her,' said Norman Ducker.

'I said the same thing to Dr. Pham. In response he told me that he planned to marry the new Jennifer G and to then cut off all ties with her family and friends through emails and phone calls that basically told everyone stay the hell away from her.'

'How did that work out?' Norman noticed each of the teenagers pulling out a basketball sized watermelon. The shortest of the three needed to stand on his tiptoes and lean his whole body over the cardboard box to get one. The others joked about his parents both being midgets and laughed.

'I'm not sure. I haven't spoken to him in months. That's what worries me. All I know is that she was delivered to his house in a big cardboard box and then they took the next flight out of the country. He wouldn't tell me where either. He just reassured me that it was safe to stay here and to not worry about it.'

'If I were you I'd think seriously about getting out of the country too. What if someone finds the body? Plus there's always the chance that her family will suspect foul play or something.'

'I admit it's crossed my mind. I can't help but think about it when I'm lying in bed at night. I always hope like hell that I can fall asleep without going through that fifteen minute period of extreme consciousness every night. Never happens though. You know what I mean?' Don Cain had a tendency to stare at people with the intensity of an interrogator when he asked questions, and this always had the effect of making Norman avoid eye contact by looking off to the side and focusing on an object that interested him, which in this case was the three teenagers running away with the seedless watermelons cradled in their arms – apparently with intentions of selling them for fifteen dollars each, just enough to purchase some video game that they were obsessed with playing.

'Not really. I'm a fast sleeper. Only time in my life that I had trouble sleeping was this two year stretch when I lived alone. I always had someone, my parents, friends, girlfriends, and on a few occasions people I didn't even know.' Norman stopped himself before he revealed anymore about his personal life, especially anything about Pauline Forbes.

'Don't get me wrong, I think about getting caught, but I'm not all that worried. As long as my son and daughter grow up okay, then I'm satisfied. It doesn't matter what happens to me.'


The water hitting Norman's chest turned cold. The steam shrouding the glass doors was receding the way icebergs melted. The bathroom's trapezoidal shape was coming into focus, along with the movable toilet paper stand and flange plunger, which, from his current angle, resembled a thick-necked man wearing a derby. He scooted to the far corner of the shower and attempted to cover himself with his arms and legs, feeling exposed, threatened.

For the last three days, the solution – his panacea – had lingered in his mind, refusing to remove itself from his stream of thoughts. He would not go that route no matter what, he told himself. He would not stoop that low. He was not like this Dr. Pham at all. For one, he would never allow any woman that he even remotely loved to undergo a dangerous surgical procedure, and he would certainly not do so with the intent of 'purchasing' her affection and love. He was thinking of Pauline Forbes again, specifically. But what did that matter when he had let her metaphorically escape. What she had escaped from he was not sure. He wanted to say 'love prison' or 'love shackles'. Those were the phrases that came to mind, and when he was able to fully process the meanings of those words in relation to his current circumstances, he became suddenly worried that all along he had regarded Pauline as an object, his proverbial 'trophy' for winning something, which, this something, equated an unknown variable to him. Of course this only held true if he were in fact 'objectifying' her, which he didn't believe he was doing, since he recalled making a conscious effort to treat her as a 'human being' and avoided sexist terminologies, like saying 'humanity' instead of 'mankind'. Pauline, who believed that language played a large role in the construction of culture, was a big proponent of restructuring the American Lexicon to push gender neutral vocabulary. Even though Norman believed it was actually culture – more specifically the ruling class or oppressor – that constructed language, he kept quiet and let Pauline lecture on how there would be equality once people put gender neutral words into everyday usage.

Norman Ducker stood up and turned off the faucet. He no longer had reason to hide within the glass doors of his shower. The pleasure he felt had dissipated once the onslaught of freezing water began to hit his chest, making goose bumps form on his boiled flesh. He shivered as he stepped out of the shower. The image of his wet body – naked and beginning to sag in places, most noticeably in the chest area where he seemed to be also developing a pair of small breasts – made his longing for Pauline more pronounced, the center of his conscious world once again, and he decided then that hitting the singles bar would be an uncomfortable situation and that he would rather get cozy on his Futon and watch the Bond marathon tonight until he fell asleep, and he hoped to catch the one where Ursula Andress rises from the water wearing a sexy white bikini and who also has this primitive hunting knife satcheled to her waist, which kind of sways back and forth as she saunters onto the beach. That was by far his favorite Bond movie. Nothing could beat the original. Nothing could beat Ursula Andress and Sean Connery.

In the living room, Norman turned on his computer. He felt a surge of excitement and energy as he waited for the OS to boot. The reason for his enthusiasm was that he had decided to check out the Mail Order Families website. It had turned out that the Bond marathon was scheduled for the following night, and this had depressed him even more than he already was, because it made him feel like nothing was going right in his life, hence his decision to tease himself through the creation of his own family. He reassured himself several times that he was seriously interested in how the whole system worked, and that he had no intentions of making a purchase.

The website looked professional and utilized a intuitive flash interface. In the center of the page, there was an image of a family smiling and waving, it appeared, at him, as if inviting him to join their lakeshore barbecue. In the background, Norman noticed several more families riding on pedal boats and wearing orange life jackets. Each of these pedal boats, it turned out, were image links to customer testimonials.

Norman clicked 'Catalog' on the menu bar and scrolled through a directory of pre-created 'Bio-Sapiens'. They could be sorted and searched alphabetically by name, age, gender, sexual orientation, race, all the way down to more obscure idiosyncrasies such as foot fetishes and favorite foods. Along with the price, each person's profile included a short biography and photos in order to further entice prospective customers. Norman, however, was not enticed by any of the female 'Bio-Sapiens' that he viewed. He had expected them all to exude perfection and beauty, but judging by the photos most were of average attractiveness. One of the company's goals, apparently, was to create natural 'humans' by keeping the DNA unaltered after insemination and letting them incubate in artificial wombs for the full nine months. This process, the company stated, was also more stable and less prone to retardation and sudden death than customizable 'Bio-Sapiens' which required large amounts of genetic modification. The acceleration of growth necessary for the procedure also increased the frequency and risk of cancer and mutations. Developmental stability during the infantile and adolescent stages of life were also problematic, causing some 'Bio Sapiens' to miss puberty, while others failed to assimilate culture into their brains. The process was still in experimental stages, but offered to customers at their own risk.

Norman disregarded the warnings and decided to create his own 'Bio-Sapien'. He reminded himself again that he was only curious about this whole Mail Order Families business, and that he didn't even expect the site to exist. All of this however was contrary to his physical responses – his increased heart rate, shaking limbs, and failure to eat his Hungry Man TV dinner that had been cooling in the microwave for the last half hour, and the tray's plastic seal, full of fork punctures, was probably gathering steam bubbles in the sections that had not gone flaccid and submerged themselves into the gravy.

The glow of the monitor provided the only light. Norman was too busy customizing his 'Bio-Sapien' to care. He was focused on adjusting and tinkering the extensive array of adjustable attributes – both physical and mental. For more precise facial mapping, Norman scanned in a photo of Pauline Forbes. It was a picture of her standing on a huge rock with her arms spread out trying to keep balance. She looked like she was about to fall off, leaning to the right. One foot in the air. Her hair in disarray, blown into chaos by the wind. She was smiling though. He missed that smile. He ran his finger over her lips, forming a long horizontal fingerprint smudge on the monitor. When and where the photo was taken, he could not remember. He thought of all the empty fields with big rocks buried half in the ground. Nothing came to mind, so he gave up.

Before Norman knew it, he had created a 'Bio-Sapien' named Pauline Forbes along with two children – Lisa and Matt, ages six and ten respectively, soccer fans, and beautiful in the kind of way that all young children should be (this notion probably stemming from a seven year period between the ages of eight and fifteen, where Norman had to wear a bulky orthodontic contraption to correct a severe crossbite of his upper and lower incisors and got called 'Jaws' and 'Metal Mouth' by his peers, whose antagonism toward him was fueled through their misconstruing that the mass of wires growing from his mouth were somehow intimating that he was an extremely hostile and antisocial person that could devour sharks). Norman moved his mouse over the 'cancel' button, let it hover for several seconds, and then nudged the cursor over to the 'proceed to checkout' button, showing some serious mental confliction on his part, how it took almost two minutes of back and forth jerks and twitches to make his decision.


Norman Ducker and Pauline Forbes were having lunch at The Submarine, a nautical themed sandwich eatery which, much to his surprise, did not offer any seafood specialties – excluding the traditional tuna – that would differentiate this place from other sandwich joints, and this bummed him out because he loved all kinds of fish and crustaceans, and he was looking forward to trying whatever creative combinations they had come up with, like maybe a grilled trout sandwich with diced carrots, cilantro, and that creamy peanut butter sauce sometimes served in combination with Vietnamese spring rolls, but instead he was stuck with a grilled chicken breast on ciabatta, which was served in this cool looking abalone shell with really sharp edges around its perimeter, so that it forced him to maneuver his hands with the utmost care when attempting to take the sandwich out, and this was made slightly more difficult because he could not avoid elbowing Pauline due to their sitting in close proximity at the back wall counter, where electric eel lights dangled uncomfortably close to their heads and hummed with electric current.

'You wouldn't believe the amount of stress I'm in,' said Pauline. 'It's pathetic. I've spent the last two weekends in the office. There's a huge recall of Count Chocula because some Chinese company thought it'd be funny to use lead paint on the bundled toy. And now we have a whole warehouse full of Count Chocula. Volunteers have been there for days opening boxes and taking out the toys. It just agonizes me that we have to give it all away to the homeless. Because apparently it's against FDA regulations to resell perfectly good cereal.'

'Come on, you know you love it.' said Norman.

After three weeks of separation, Pauline had called and asked if Norman would like to have lunch with her, reassuring him that this meant nothing at all, and added, shortly, that what she really meant was she had no romantic intentions and he could be reassured that she was not moping around eating ice cream and watching Sleepless in Seattle because she could not live another day without him or anything, but then admitted also that she did honestly miss him. But in a platonic way.

'Love what?' said Pauline.

'You love the power. It makes you feel important. Doesn't it?'

'Are you attacking me now? Because I think you are. And I don't need this from you.' Pauline swiveled her bar stool in his direction and looked at him.

'Look, I accept what happened, if that's what you mean. I've moved on,' said Norman. 'I'm just trying to be honest. If you don't love the power, why are you so hell bent on moving up the corporate ladder?'

'Well, in my freshman year of college, I had a roommate who was a photographer and also a lesbian. We got along pretty good, and one day she asked me to partake in a series of photos featuring the faces of different women masturbating. I said right away that I wanted no part of that. I thought masturbating was a vile and nasty thing. I was so scared when she brought out this huge pink dildo. She told me to embrace my body, my naked form or something, and she reached for my blouse, standing with her lips nearly touching my nose as she undid one of the buttons. I pushed her away from me and ran out of the room. What else could I do? I thought she was coming on to me. I freaked out. It took me two years to understand the art in those photos, the celebration of female sexuality that my parents had sheltered from me all those years. The empowering of women in all facets of life is the only way to end male oppression. I'm just doing my part by not settling for what society expects of me. Once our language no longer distinguishes between the genders, once the words and meanings of 'man' and 'woman' are eliminated from our lexicons, will that be possible.'

'I think you missed the point of your roommate's photos. Maybe it was celebrating female sexuality in the way of promoting and taking pride in being a woman, and not necessarily trying to reach for the complete deconstruction of gender. Don't you think it would be sad to lose that?'

'I admit that I would. But I realize that it is the same situation as when I was so utterly horrified by the idea of masturbating and my own naked body. So I for one will embrace the change if it comes in my lifetime.' Pauline seasoned her clam chowder with a sponge shaped salt shaker.

Norman put his sandwich down and stood up. 'This is never going to work between us, Pauline. We want different things. Every time I see you, I think about what could have been.'

'I honestly would like us to stay friends. For a very long time. When it comes down to it, wasn't that what we were?'

'I don't know,' said Norman. He reached into his pocket and took out the photo of Pauline standing on the rock. 'Here, take it. I think it's yours.'

'Oh, Easton Park. I remember this. Brings back a lot of good memories. Thanks for this,' said Pauline as she examined the photo. 'Maybe we can have lunch again sometime. If you wish.'


In the first two years of their relationship Norman Ducker and Pauline Forbes went to a lot of parks and enjoyed nature and everything. Sunsets and rain. Rain and sunsets. Easton Park was maybe the second or third time they had gone out – when they still lived separate of each other and had not yet seen each other's bodies naked. Norman had groped her breast once or twice while he kissed her, and he had told her – as if he were a teenager again – that it was an accident, that he didn't mean it, and Pauline laughed and he laughed too for some reason, even though he was serious. He had always been a fairly serious person, though he was not afraid or anything to laugh every now and then. As long it was genuinely funny. Like when Pauline stood on that rock half buried in the ground and nearly fell face first into the dirt. And he would have laughed even harder at that, at the expense of her misery. But the thing was that Norman couldn't remember that day in its all its perfect details. He was left with only fragments.