---
layout: fiction
title: "Real burritos"
---

My mom said, when people die, they join their friends and relatives up in heaven or some such place. For my mom, heaven was where ever you wanted. It could be real. Or it could be imagined. The sky's the limit she said pointing at my grandfather's ashes, the wind carrying them far away, high into the sky. Mostly, I think, she wanted to reassure me that the afterlife was not a lonely place. That was my big existential question at the time.

I was just an eight-year-old leaning on the guardrails of some massive cruise liner, while wondering why in the world my grandfather's ashes were being spread over the ocean. Everyone was saying how beautiful the whole 'event' was. How it was so perfect to do this in front of the sunset and that whoever scheduled dinner for the next event was a genius. They were starving, exhausted after a long day and all they wanted was some surf and turf accompanied by a lot of wine.

All those ashes in the sky, they reminded me of the summer wildfires in San Bernardino, where temperatures reached into the hundreds and the air was so dry and polluted it was hard to breathe and my nose would bleed every day for the month of August. The bleeding was so excessive I wondered if it would ever stop. And of course it did. But when the blood was soaking napkin after napkin and draining down my throat in large coagulated clots, death by nosebleed, no matter how absurd it sounded, became a very real possibility. The worst feeling was releasing the pressure from my nose bridge, thinking the blood was clotted up and then feeling a rush of blood stream from my nostril. My doctor told me my nosebleeds were a combination of thin blood and scabs not healing properly. In regards to the latter, I think he was implying that I picked my nose after nosebleeds, which was not true. The opposite really. I once knew someone who would blow the blood out of his nose until it stopped. I only wish I were that brave. But the truth was I kept from disturbing my nose. I wouldn't touch it at all costs, not even to subside the slightest itch.

I'm aware that all this sounds tangential and maybe even a tad narcissistic, my going on and on about everything that comes to mind, as if it's of any interest to anyone. But that's what happens after you've been dead a while. There's nothing else here. Nothing at all. Except your memories. All of them, even the one's you've forgotten. They all come back. So you learn to live through them. You try to make them new. See them from different angles. Remember moments of triumph. Analyze failures. In a way my mom was right. Heaven really is where you want. And all your friends and relatives are alive and well. Unless you're remembering their funeral. Then they're dead.

Most people, I think, probably relive all their good memories. Their happy memories. Of course this is only an assumption on my part. Who knows what other people's experiences are like. Maybe it's completely different and they end up in heaven with all their friends and family. Just like my mom said. Or maybe not. Anyway I don't relive all the good moments like I think should. Instead I just keep reliving this one moment in my life which led to my suicide three months later. In hindsight I overreacted. But what's done is done.

To be honest, it's a sob story more than anything. It's like now that I'm dead it shouldn't bother me that I want to tell this story to everyone that cares to listen and make them feel sorry for me. But it does bother me. Except more in the way that now I have this perfectly crafted and rehearsed story to tell, but no one to tell it to. And it's just killing me. I guess the one positive is that I get to keep practicing and practicing. Working on my timing and pronunciation. All of that. And my little sob story just keeps getting closer and closer to perfection because I got nothing better to do. Plus deep down I believe there are others around here, and if there are others, there's a chance my story will be heard.

When I was twenty-five I applied to teach English in Korea. Being Korean myself I thought what a better way to learn about my roots and help enrich some people's lives. With some luck they could become translators for the U.N. or if worse came to worst they could write Korean subtitles for American movies or vice versa.

The most important asset in getting hired is looks. Image is everything to the Korean government. I've come across ads that say: “To apply, must be young energetic woman with big knockers who is interested in teach English in Korea. No experience necessary. TOEFFL degree and teaching experience a plus.” Obviously I didn't fit the requirements. I was neither energetic or a woman with big knockers.

My nostril deformity made matters worse. They are twice the average size and when I was a child I used to stick marbles up my nose at the urging of classmates. It got to the point where I was able to squeeze shooters in with little effort. They'd all cheer and ask me to do it again. And of course I did, each time upping the size of the marble. I was desperate for acceptance then. I grew up in a primarily Hispanic neighborhood where I learned to love burritos and begged my parents to make them for dinner. They ended up creating a kind of hybrid burrito with kimchi and bulgogi wrapped in a flour tortilla. I hated them, so my parents eventually learned to make real burritos.

A week after I applied they sent an email saying they liked my resume and they had teachers practically salivating over my services, but also asked if I would be so kind as to send a recent photo of myself. With some hesitance I sent a picture that highlighted features other than my nostrils.

Weeks passed and no response came. I started to worry that maybe it really was my nose's fault. I'd look into the mirror and see my huge nostrils and just really hate myself. The only way to make me feel better was to open up Photoshop and start changing my nose to look like various celebrities' noses. Then I'd post them on hotornot.com and compulsively check my ratings. At one point I even considered rhinoplasty. But my fear of anesthetics prevented me from going forward with the idea. Eventually I got an email telling me that I wouldn't be hired because I was Korean.

It turns out the major requirement for teaching in Korea is being Caucasian. Korean parents want their children to speak perfect English and demand teachers with no accent.

After reading the email I suddenly had a craving for a kimchi and bulgogi burrito. Since I didn't know how to cook those foods, I went to a Korean restaurant and ordered what I needed and then wrapped everything in a flour tortilla. People looked at me funny as I raised the burrito to my mouth. BBQ sauce dripped from the tortilla and pieces of kimchi landed on the table. Baseball was on the television. Dodger pennants hung on the walls. I took a bite of the burrito, thinking the owner must be a big Dodger fan. The taste of kimchi and rubbery beef filled my mouth and then I vomited. Embarrassed by all the stares I rushed outside, leaving the warmth of bodies and food for the night breeze, which I enjoyed immensely.
