---
layout: fiction
title: "Letter from a maladroit"
excerpt: "Because I lack the interpersonal skills necessary to communicate with you through formal dialogue, I have taken the time to write this letter apropos my recent demotion, and this should explain my silence after you informed me that I had been 'reassigned' to the iMac line and that my hourly wage would be reduced by 75 cents or ten percent."
---


Dear Ricky Chung:

Because I lack the interpersonal skills necessary to communicate with you through formal dialogue, I have taken the time to write this letter apropos my recent demotion, and this should explain my silence after you informed me that I had been 'reassigned' to the iMac line and that my hourly wage would be reduced by 75 cents or ten percent. I assume it perplexed you that I said nothing about my pay cut and that I just drove home while watching the sunset as I always do after work, though I do this more because the sun stares at me from the east and makes it impossible to avoid unless I close my eyes. A lot of times when I drive alone I imagine myself crashing into the cement roadblocks that separate oncoming traffic or fishtailing into a stoplight or fire hydrant. I always die except in this one scenario where I drive off a curvy overpass and jump out of the car before it lands on a Shell gas station and explodes. I survive with two broken legs and bruises all over my body, ones that hurt and feel gushy when you touch them, ones that you press down on really hard just to see how much pain you can take and then sigh in relief once it's over. The logistics make no sense though. Maybe it'd take five seconds at most before the car makes contact with the gas pumps, so it seems impossible that I could unstrap my seatbelt and open the door quick enough for myself to jump out, especially if you take into account the two seconds that'll pass before I even realize that I've just driven off an overpass. Also if I did happen to escape the car, there'd be no way to elude the coming explosion and flames. One day I'll die in a car accident. It seems inevitable. Like a lot of things. You expected conflict judging by the hesitance and stutter of your voice, though it's possible that your slight discomfort was a product of your inability to express yourself with the same articulation as when you speak in Cantonese and therefore made you conscious of the possibility that I would judge you as incompetent. However my mind was in such a haze at the time that maybe my perception of you standing by your desk with a perplexed look on your face isn't true at all and that you were in reality smiling and mentally congratulating yourself. In these types of situations I find it difficult to remember exactly what transpired; my memories flash in brief fragments like a movie with many missing frames, and sometimes I wonder if any of this really happened. Most people would describe me as aloof. You probably do too – except you'd use the corresponding term or phrase in Cantonese - or why would you demote me if you didn't see yourself as somehow superior to me? I hope you can see how this handicaps me in the way of social interactions and prevented me from discussing my grievances with you. I want to understand why I've been demoted. Something which you neglected to explain. Do you see me as a maladroit? Only a maladroit could get demoted from a low-level job to an even lower-level job. Ms. Brogan (you don't know her but she was my English teacher in high school) wrote on one of my papers that I was more talented at writing than 5 billion people. I must've read that comment a million times before it struck me that most of those people were probably illiterate anyway. Then I tried to tell myself that even if that were true, I was still a better writer than all those people. But then I began to wonder if Ms. Brogan didn't write the same thing to everyone else. She seemed like that kind of person, overly optimistic and cheerful, almost idealistic in her belief that all her students were 'special' - though her word choice made me briefly wonder if she weren't really comparing us to the 'learning disabled' students in room 15. But what I think she really meant was that she herself could inspire us to become something more than ordinary. She was a new teacher then and probably changed her whole philosophy after she lost her job two years later. Anyway the simple thing to do was to ask a classmate but I thought they'd see me as a show off or something if it turned out Ms. Brogan only wrote that comment on my paper. So I spent weeks dwelling on all the possibilities before I came to the conclusion that I really was a great writer. On your request I agreed to work twelve hour shifts on the iMac line Thursday and Friday. Possibly Saturday too. Once again you never gave a reason. And I didn't need a reason because I'll do anything for people short of killing someone with a sledgehammer. To me this seems like one of the most brutal ways to murder someone, and I won't deny that this thought flashed through my mind when I walked out of the building. My Uncle Jason probably thinks about killing his mother. But he would never really kill her. Like with a sledgehammer or something. It probably would take pages to explain any of this but seeing as I feel this is important and somehow relates to my problem, I'll try and give a brief a overview of the situation. When I was nine or ten Uncle Jason moved into my parents' house and stole my room, which made me furious - though I am merely guessing how I reacted to this since it was such a long time ago and I don't really remember what happened. Up to that point I didn't even know he existed and had no idea what his life was like before this – where he worked and lived, if he had a girlfriend or not. Now he was unemployed and spent his afternoons watching Laserdisc movies which he felt would be the next big thing and supplant VHS tapes. He pointed out that LD had far superior picture because it had a horizontal resolution of 400 lines whereas VHS was only capable of 250. And then he would go on about how LD was chapter based and allowed the user to jump to certain points of a movie without needing to rewind or fast-forward, a huge advantage according to him. The one thing he never mentioned was that halfway through the movie you'd have to walk over to the LD player and physically flip the disc to side B which meant that you would probably have to spend the rest of the movie getting yourself back into a comfortable sitting position. I was afraid of him. A lot of this had to do with his suddenly taking my room but also because of my theory that he was a zombie. This was the result of watching Night of the Living Dead only a few days prior. My mind was playing with the possibility of real live zombies. Then one day I saw Uncle Jason slumped on the couch with his arms crossed over his stomach, breathing slowly. He was asleep and because his eyelids weren't closed all the way you could see the whites of his eyes, jaundiced and bloodshot, the pupils not showing. Although I was aware that he didn't possess some critical traits – a rotting body, maggots, and cannibalistic tendencies – I couldn't help wondering if he was a zombie. His face was often expressionless and blank, non-responsive in conversation. The exception being when he talked about the benefits of LD. He also spoke in a monotone voice and had a tendency to mumble. Plus he moved in a slow lumbering way. All these were traits I had observed in zombies. No one else was afraid of him though. Uncle Bobby – his brother - only became scared of him when he – Uncle Jason – stopped taking his meds for schizophrenia and started riding his bike around my grandmother's store while wearing ski gloves and a full-face visor. That happened years later. So Uncle Jason was having a hard time finding employment and after living with my parents for three months, his mother made him manager of her liquor store. He worked there for ten years before he snapped and told his mother that he should be paid more than or at least equal to what she earned, that he never got vacation time while she traveled whenever she wanted, and that she took his house (his mother had bought one for him but once it was renovated she ended up taking it and giving him her old house). You told me that it was until the end of the week, only temporary. I wanted to believe that this was all because you lied to me. This was the reason I'd been giving everyone else, I was too ashamed to tell the truth. So I was getting to why I feel like a maladroit. Sam showed me to my new 'assignment' on the iMac line which you described as 'like testing but easier' and sounded way less demeaning than if you were to say, 'your new job will be to scan barcodes.' In fact your words had precisely the effect that you had intended. I felt proud that you would choose me over everyone else and I assumed that you saw me as a reliable and competent worker. Sam then started to explain how the assembly line worked and I began to feel less and less important. 'See the assembly line is like a caterpillar,' said Sam, 'and each person is one of its legs and if it is missing even one leg then it cannot walk good. The assembly line has to stop. So each leg is very important.' At first it seemed true and did make me feel a little better but then I began to think that Sam was wrong and that it wasn't really each leg that was important but all the legs as a whole that were. The way I saw it each leg amounted to nothing on its own. Then Sam showed me how to scan the barcodes. His breath smelled strongly of cinnamon and made me wonder if he was a heavy consumer of Cinnaburst gum, one of those people who could chew on a piece for hours and not realize how annoying that sound could be to others. Uncle Jason was the same way. Except he preferred Wrigley's Juicy Fruit and only started the habit after he stopped taking his pills. Sometimes I thought Uncle Jason was faking his insanity and that he was only doing this to torture his mother. Of course this would only work if she really loved and cared about her son. It was weird to me that my supposedly schizophrenic uncle could be so methodical in his insanity, at least with his gum obsession. Like he would only take gum from my grandmother's store and only on Fridays around one in the afternoon. He would come in wearing his visor. You could see the faint outlines of his disturbed smile and purplish black lips from behind the tinted plastic. His presence would make Uncle Bobby freeze and unconsciously hold his breath. He was always thinking that his brother would pull a gun out and shoot him. His fear seemed unreasonable, brought about because of guilt, some mistreatment of his brother that now faced with the possibility of death he regretted. I really wanted to believe that Uncle Jason had the guts to do something like this but I could never fully believe it. No matter how I worked it out, his actions would be contrary to his character, unless he was mentally ill. So Sam handed me a travel card and told me to try. He crossed his arms and leaned back with a smug look on his face. The scanner was in my hand, my finger resting on the yellow trigger while I stared at the numerous barcodes, not knowing which one to scan. And by now you should know Sam well enough that he has no patience for incompetence, so I doubt it surprises you that he tore the scanner and travel card from my hands and with a groan said, 'No, no. Like this. Scan here.' I imagined the veins in his neck bulging as he said this with his teeth clenched and lips wrapped above his gums. Similar incidents – like how it seems all the hard drives I assembled were always of poor quality (the damn screws would always end up crooked or the rubber circles would fall out of the HD case) - have given me the impression that management thinks I'm a maladroit which in turn makes me feel like a maladroit and it doesn't help matters that the computer continues to beat me in under twenty moves at chess, though once I lasted twenty-six moves. However I don't think that's the exact reason why I've been demoted. I think it has more to do with my lack of social skills which probably furthers your impression that I'm a maladroit. At first it appeared that my inability to work with people was because no one spoke English too well and were more comfortable speaking in their native languages, either Cantonese, Mandarin, Vietnamese or Spanish. But the whole time I was lying to myself. I didn't want to believe that Ms. Brogan was right when she told me that group work was an important skill. She even arranged a meeting with my parents to discuss this 'problem'. And as a result I went to see this psychologist-type guy named Dr. Worrell or Dr. Watkins. A real failure if you ask me. I knew right from the start. One look at his office and it was obvious. The first thing I saw was his PHD from San Francisco State University, aged yellow and framed with a cherry veneer. It was impossible not to notice because it hung on the wall directly opposite the entrance. There were two bookshelves placed symmetrically against the west and north walls of the room. His desk was positioned in such way so that he could look out the window by turning his head 45 degrees to the right. For me I had to reposition my chair at a more convenient angle or be forced to turn my head almost a full 90. The view was okay, just a parking lot with slanted parking spaces. I spent a lot of time watching how people parked their cars and who got out of them. Dr. Worrell didn't mind. Like I said he was a real failure of a psychologist and had long given into the fact that he was ordinary, even though he wouldn't admit it. A person of real talent or genius wouldn't spend his days working with troubled teens. Small stuff like teen pregnancy and drug abuse didn't change the world. Dr. Watkins was pretty much offering his services for free, although he did receive a nominal salary through donations and fundraising. Once I asked him why he was working here and he told me that he wanted to help people who really needed it and couldn't afford to pay 70 an hour for his services. He went on about how the world was a selfish place and that if only there were more people like him. A truly happy smile formed on his face and patches of crimson colored his cheeks. 'You're a louse,' I said. His smile disappeared and he blinked twice. ‘Did you hear me, I said you’re a louse. Don't be offended though, everyone is a louse, pretty much. It's no good lying to yourself. You'll just continue to suffer. Why don't you admit that if you had the genius to change the world you wouldn't be sitting here right now?' Dr. Worrell told me he had developed a serious disgust for Russian literature after reading 'The Overcoat'. It was too bleak for him. Then Dr. Watkins said, 'So are you saying the Buddha is a louse? I mean he preaches unselfishness and compassion towards others; I feel like I'm doing the same.' I explained that it was true that his [the Buddha's] philosophy suited ordinary people, but that didn't mean that he was a louse since he had come up with the ideas and changed the way people thought. I said that if the louses of the world spent their days meditating and following the Noble Eight Fold Path they would be much happier. Why reach for greatness when your failure is inevitable? 'Fair enough,' said Dr. Worrell. 'Let me ask. Do you see yourself as a louse?' He probably set me up with that question because as soon as I answered he asked me how I knew that I wasn't one. I told him that I just knew and that unfortunately my time was up. I believe one of the reasons I was reassigned to the iMac line was because of this Chinese woman named Lily. You probably know that she moved here from Guangzhou three years ago and as result speaks very little English. That she lived in Guangzhou is also important, since almost everyone there prefers to speak Cantonese over Mandarin. Maybe you thought I could communicate with her since I did understand Cantonese. Though I didn't know how you thought this would work. Did you expect her to speak – in Cantonese – to me in an endless monologue with occasional pauses for me to nod my head? Still I felt important again. Lily's job was to weigh the 'unit' and then place a sticker on the side of the box where there was an upside down 'L'. She also had to hand me the travel card so I could scan it and tell her if it passed or not, which she then relayed to another worker who would put the 'unit' on the corresponding pallet. Probably the only things I had said to her in the last two days were 'no good' or 'good'. And most times I didn't have to say that either because Lily or whoever else could hear the computer say 'no good' in this heavy Japanese accent with microphone static in the background. The truth was that she had developed more rapport with her Hispanic co-workers than me. They gave each other M&M's and trail mix (which you should avoid at all costs because the bags in the vending machines are expired) when Sam wasn't around. They had little in-jokes which I didn't understand. It wasn't what one would call 'high level' communication or anything. Whatever that meant. It wasn't important. What was important was that they could interact at a very basic level and were still able to form a small connection with each other that didn't appear hollow. Or maybe it was all fake. I noticed that when Lily got flustered she had a tendency to say mean things to her Hispanic co-workers in Chinese. She would call them no brain monkeys or bulls. The tone of her voice never came across in a playful manner, the way Mama called everyone pendejo – which I think is the only Spanish word she knows. Like on Thursday Lily got mad at Oscar for sending too many 'units' down the conveyor belt. She couldn't weigh them fast enough since the scale needed five or six seconds to reset and this resulted, more often than not, in a 32 lb iMac shooting straight into her face or chest, and on the fifth or sixth time this happened, Lily stood up and yelled 'I quit' as she stomped off to find Sam. The incident was resolved moments later when Sam came to our work area. He spoke with Oscar about being more patient when sending the 'units' down the conveyor belt, and after that, work resumed as usual. Uncle Jason is better now. He works part-time at the liquor store again. I thought he was different. Four months ago he almost left his family because his son asked him for new shoes. Uncle Jason suddenly got mad as hell and started yelling, 'No fucking shoes! No fucking shoes!' Again and again and again. His wife took her son to my parents' house. She was crying her heart out while her son and I watched television. He seemed kind of scared. You could see it in his eyes. His lips were quivering but he wasn't crying or anything. I wondered if he knew what was going on. But I guess when you're young you think your father is the greatest person in the world no matter what. His wife wanted to call the police and have him put in a mental asylum. My mom tried to calm her down by saying all these nice things to her, and Uncle Jason at this point had taken his bike and rode off. I was amazed at his guts, that he could leave his family just like that. I thought that was exactly what one had to do be great and change the world. But moments later the police found him riding around downtown and arrested him. I remember his son staring at his father with the two police holding him by the arms, his head staring at the floor. His son said, 'You didn't do anything bad did you?' And his father shook his head.

From:
John Fang