---
layout: post
title: "Fast food"
---

The price of hamburgers has tripled since the Chinese took over. American cheese is now considered a delicacy up there with shark's fin and turtle legs. Every day cattle are herded two-by-two onto Chinese battle cruisers headed West at sunset.

At Bartleby's Big Boy Burgers, a Western Bacon Double Decker costs $15.95 with a large soda and medium steak fries. This is what Julian has set his eyes on for his late night meal. Money is not a concern at the moment. Only indulgence. He'll live with the guilt in the morning when his stomach is full of char-broiled beef and barbecue sauce.

These late night excursions to Bartleby's began after the divorce. He gets to see his kids every other Saturday for three hours. He takes them to the Mongolian buffet at Casino Number 16 where he plays Keno with them.

Julian pulls up to the glowing drive-thru menu. The pictures of food look erotic. His mouth literally waters at the sight of chicken strips with three kinds of chutney dip. He suddenly can't decide if the Western Bacon is what he really wants. The new Bulgogi Burger with Kimchi looks exotic. When did Bartleby's become so international?

"Welcome to Bartleby's Big Boy Burgers. Home of the American Revolution in burgers. May I take your order?" The voice sounds young and full of pep.

Normally, he welcomes this type of cheer and optimism from a customer service associate, but today he is listening for familiarity. Julian is expecting the voice of a woman who has smoked since her teens and who is now in her early forties.

"Ramona, is that you?"

"I don't know any Ramona here. I think you've mistaken me for someone else. Can I interest you in our new Tortoise Tortas with stone-ground guac?"

"I'm sorry for the misunderstanding. She used to work here. I'll have the Western Bacon Double Decker meal."

"With root beer and ice filled three-quarters of the way, right?"

"I see, you've finally got those vocal cord implants. You sound so different. You sound like you are not even you."

Ramona laughs happily. "The banks have been in disarray with this whole China thing going down so unexpectedly. I just thought to myself, I don't want to think back twenty years from now and feel regret. Everyone's been raving about them. My voice."

"Your voice is beautiful now. No doubt. But I swear that I loved your old voice too. I regret that I never got to say goodbye."

Julian drives up to the second drive-thru window. The sliding pane is locked. There is a paper sign that says the glass is bullet proof and that an alarm will trigger if touched. Ramona stands at the far-end stacking onion rings and bacon on the burger. He counts an extra onion ring. Two on bottom. Three on top. The bacon strips form an asterisk. She scoops fries into two holders. Everything goes into a paper bag that she rolls closed to seal in the heat.

Ramona opens the window. She has a big smile on her face.

They exchange food and money respectively.

"I gave you an extra onion ring and fries. You deserve it my friend."

Julian has never seen her smile so much.

"Before I forget. Let me get your soda." She takes out one of the plastic super-sized cups. Ice fills the cup until it's three quarters full. Then comes the root beer. "Do you ever look at simple things and just marvel at human ingenuity?"

"No. Not really."

"Take this cup for instance. The top is very wide, but then the base slims down to fit in your's car cup holder. It seems simple to you and me, but I can tell you that I would never have thought of it in a million years."

Hearing the words come from Ramona's mouth reminds him of old book and movie tropes where the young and old protagonists switch bodies.

"I've got an interview tomorrow. I can't tell you for whom or for what, but it's for a voice acting job. I'm so excited."

Julian thanks her and drives into an empty parking space. He can see Ramona in his rear-view mirror. She is reading a book, but cannot tell if she is reading in her head or out loud. When she looks up, he looks down.

He opens his bag. The heat of the food warms his face. The windows steam up slightly on the edges. His super-sized cup sits at a slight angle and obscures the control panel for the radio. He sifts through napkins, two fry holders, and his burger, but cannot find the ketchup.

He cannot find the ketchup.